In finance, an investment strategy is a set of rules, behaviors or procedures, designed to guide an investor's selection of an investment portfolio.  Individuals have different profit objectives, and their individual skills make different tactics and strategies appropriate. Some choices involve a tradeoff between risk and return. Most investors fall somewhere in between, accepting some risk for the expectation of higher returns. 
In the field of economics, this decision is driven by finding the investment strategy that has the highest utility. Investors frequently pick investments to hedge themselves against inflation. During periods of high inflation investments such as shares tend to perform less well in real terms.
The time horizon of investments also influences the strategy to be followed. Investments such as shares should be invested into with the time frame of a minimum of 5 years in mind. It is recommended in finance a minimum of 6 months to 12 months expenses in a rainy-day current account, giving instant access before investing in riskier investments than an instant access account. It is also recommended no more than 90% of your money in non-instant access shares. Unexpected expenses can happen. If someone does not have an income an income can be created by using share income funds.


== Strategies ==
No strategy:  Investors who don't have a strategy have been called Sheep.  Arbitrary choices modeled on throwing darts at a page (referencing earlier decades when stock prices were listed daily in the newspapers) have been called Blindfolded Monkeys Throwing Darts [no source]. This famous test had debatable outcomes.
Active vs Passive:  Passive strategies like buy and hold and passive indexing are often used to minimize transaction costs. Passive investors don't believe it is possible to time the market.  Active strategies such as momentum trading are an attempt to outperform benchmark indexes.  Active investors believe they have the better than average skills.
Momentum Trading:  One strategy is to select investments based on their recent past performance. Stocks that had higher returns for the recent 3 to 12 months tend to continue to perform better for the next few months compared to the stocks that had lower returns for the recent 3 to 12 months. There is evidence both for and against this strategy.
Buy and Hold:  This strategy involves buying company shares or funds and holding them for a long period. It is a long term investment strategy, based on the concept that in the long run equity markets give a good rate of return despite periods of volatility or decline. This viewpoint also holds that market timing, that one can enter the market on the lows and sell on the highs, does not work for small investors, so it is better to simply buy and hold.
Long Short Strategy: A long short strategy consists of selecting a universe of equities and ranking them according to a combined alpha factor. Given the rankings we long the top percentile and short the bottom percentile of securities once every re-balancing period.
Indexing:  Indexing is where an investor buys a small proportion of all the shares in a market index such as the S&P 500, or more likely, an index mutual fund or an exchange-traded fund (ETF). This can be either a passive strategy if held for long periods, or an active strategy if the index is used to enter and exit the market quickly.
Developed markets vs emerging markets:  Many people use developed stock markets because they are believed to be safer than emerging markets. When investing globally you have the risk of changes in currency exchange rates on top of stock market performance. Other people pick emerging markets believing the emerging markets have higher potential for GDP growth which in turn would then affect positively the share prices in those countries. Emerging stock markets can be less well-regulated than those in the developed markets increasing risks and have greater political risks associated. T