Private equity (PE) is stock in a private company that does not offer stock to the general public. In the field of finance, private equity is offered instead to specialized investment funds and limited partnerships that take an active role in the management and structuring of the companies. In casual usage, "private equity" can refer to these investment firms, rather than the companies in which that they invest.
Private-equity capital is invested into a target company either by an investment management company (private equity firm), a venture capital fund, or an angel investor; each category of investor has specific financial goals, management preferences, and investment strategies for profiting from their investments. Private equity provides working capital to the target company to finance the expansion of the company with the development of new products and services, restructuring of operations, management, and formal control and ownership of the company.
As a financial product, the private-equity fund is a type of private capital for financing a long-term investment strategy in an illiquid business enterprise. Private equity fund investing has been described by the financial press as the superficial rebranding of investment management companies who specialized in the leveraged buyout of financially weak companies.
Evaluations of the returns of private equity are mixed: some find that it outperforms public equity, but others find otherwise.


== Key features ==
Some key features of private equity investment include:

An investment manager (the private equity investor) raises money from institutional investors (e.g., hedge funds, pension funds, university endowments, and ultra-high-net-worth individuals) to pursue a particular investment strategy.
The fundraise proceeds are placed into an investment fund, in which the investment manager acts as a general partner (GP) and the institutional investors act as limited partners (LPs).
The investment manager then purchases equity ownership stakes in companies by using a combination of equity and debt financing, with the goal of generating returns on the equity invested, including any subsequent equity investments into the target companies, over a target horizon based on the particular investment fund and strategy (typically 4–7 years).
From a financial modeling perspective, the primary levers available to private equity investors to drive returns are:
Revenue growth
Margin expansion (typically an EBITDA margin)
Free cash flow generation / debt paydown
Valuation multiple expansion (typically an Enterprise Value / EBITDA multiple)
Value creation strategies can vary widely by private equity fund. For example, some investors may target increasing sales in new or existing markets (driving revenue growth), and others may look to reduce costs through headcount reduction (expanding margins). Many strategies incorporate some amount of corporate governance restructuring, for example, setting up a Board of Directors or updating the target's managerial reporting structure.
The use of debt financing in acquiring companies increases an investment's return on equity by reducing the amount of initial equity required to purchase the target. Moreover, the interest payments are tax-deductible, so the debt financing reduces corporate taxes and thus increases total after-tax cash flows generated by the business.
Following a series of high-profile bankruptcies, aggressive leverage usage by private equity funds has declined in recent decades. In 2005, approximately 70% of the average private equity acquisition represented debt, but it was closer to 50% in 2020.
Firms that assume large operational risks (e.g., "turnarounds") will usually apply far lower leverage levels to acquired companies in order to provide management with more financial flexibility; firms taking fewer operational risks will often try to maximize available leverage and focus on investments that generate strong, stable cash flows needed 