Warren Buffett is showing no signs of slowing  down in his early nineties amid an increasingly  difficult investing environment. Despite the  turmoil, the “Oracle of Omaha” has been as  active as ever. Buffett’s buying spree of energy giant  Occidental Petroleum continued in 2023, as   he took advantage of a pullback in prices,  boosting Berkshire Hathaway’s stake in the  oil giant to more than 20%. Meanwhile, the investing legend proved there  is no place on earth he won’t go to find a  cheap stock, finding buying opportunities  recently in five Japanese trading houses. Buffett  even traveled to Japan in April personally, his  first time there in more than 11 years, to meet  with the heads at these firms personally and  evaluate his investment. While his investment picks have changed over  the decades — from sectors to countries —    his core investing philosophy has remained  the same. Here’s how he does it today and  how he’s always done it. For Warren Buffett, deciding what stocks to  buy is “simple but not necessarily easy.” He spends most of his day reading. He calls it   his “secret.” Buffett reads hundreds of pages  a week to build up “compound knowledge”  over decades. He reads books, newspapers,  and especially, annual reports. “The beauty of  it is that the knowledge is cumulative. … What  you’re learning about Company A will help  you thinking about Company B,” he said.  It’s a lot of work, and it takes a lot of time.  Buffett enjoys that work and has the time to  do it. He is a professional investor. Most people aren’t professional investors. The  advice he’s given, time and time again over  the years, is that for most people, the best  thing to do is make regular contributions to a  low-cost stock index fund and spend your time  on the other things you need, or want, to do. “You will not get that advice from anybody  else because nobody gets paid to give you  that advice,” he added. Buffett also stresses this: Don’t take advice  from anyone who is paid to offer it. “You will  have all kinds of people telling you how much  better they can do for you” if you pay them,  “but they won’t do better.” CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 WARREN BUFFETT  GUIDE TO INVESTING 

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 “They come in and they talk for hours, and  you pay them a large fee, and they always  suggest something other than just sitting on  your rear end and participating in American  business without cost.”   — 2016 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING To prove his point, in 2007, he made a massive  10-year bet for charity with a proponent of  active investing that a low-cost Vanguard S&P  500 index fund would outperform a hand- picked basket of hedge funds, which charge  At the end of the wager, the S&P index fund  had gained 125.8%. The hedge funds were   up an average of around 36%. A key element of the index fund strategy,  however, is that you don’t put everything in  “I would do it over a period of time, because  the very nature of index funds is that you   are saying, I think America’s business is going   to do well over a  — reasonably well — over   a long period of time, but I don’t know  enough to pick the winners and I don’t know  enough to pick the winning times.”   — 2002 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING If you do want to do it yourself, Buffett   says you need to know three investing  principles that have guided him since he was  They’re from a book first published in 1949:    “The Intelligent Investor” by Benjamin  Graham. Buffett read it while he was an  undergraduate at the University of Nebraska. “ ‘The Intelligent Investor’ changed my   life. ... Graham’s book gave me a philosophy,   a bedrock philosophy, on investing that    — 2013 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Don’t look at a stock like it is a ticker  symbol with a price that goes up and down  on a chart. It’s a slice of a company’s   profits far into the future, and that’s how  they need to be evaluated. “Charlie(Munger,Buffett’slongtimebusiness partner) and I haven’t the faintest idea   where the stock market is going to go next  week, next month, or next year. We never   talk about it. …   “ What we see when we look at the stock  market is thousands and thousands and  thousands of companies priced every day,  and we ignore 99.9 percent of what we   see … and then every now and then we see  something that looks like it’s attractively  priced to us, as a business. Forget about   the word ‘stock.’  “When we buy a stock, we would be happy  with that stock if they told us the market   was going to close for a couple years. We  look to the business.” What does Buffett look for in a business? In  his 1977 letter to shareholders, Buffett listed  four things he wants to see, whether he’s  buying the entire company for Berkshire, or  just a slice of it as a stock. 

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 When Buffett talks about “understanding”   a company, he means he understands how  that company will be able to make money   far into the future.  He’s often said he didn’t buy shares of   what turned out to be very successful tech  companies such as Google and Microsoft  because he didn’t understand them.   At the 2000 annual meeting, a skeptical  shareholder told Buffett he couldn’t imagine  him not understanding something. Buffett  responded, “Oh, we understand the product.  We understand what it does for people.   We just don’t know the economics of it 10  years from now.” Buffett often refers to a company’s sustainable  competitive advantage, something he calls   “Every business that we look at we think   of as an economic castle. … And you want the  capitalistic system to work in a way that  millions of people are out there with capital  thinking about ways to take your castle away  from you, and appropriate it for their own  use. And then the question is, what kind of   a moat do you have around that castle that    — 2000 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING A “moat” consists of things a company does  to keep and gain loyal customers, such as  low prices, quality products, proprietary  technology, and, often, a well-known brand  built through years of advertising, such   as Coca-Cola. An established company in an  industry that has large start-up costs that  deter would be competitors can also have   “Generally, we like people who are candid.   We can usually tell when somebody’s  dancing around something, or where their —  when the reports are essentially a little  dishonest, or biased, or something. And it’s  just a lot easier to operate with people   that are candid. “And we like people who are smart, you know.   I don’t mean geniuses. ... And we like people  who are focused on the business.”   — 1995 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING The quality of the business itself, however,  takes precedence. “The really great business is one that doesn’t  require good management. I mean, that is   aterrificbusiness.Andthepoorbusinessis one that can only succeed, or even survive,  with great management.”   — 1996 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING “The key to [Benjamin] Graham’s approach   to investing is not thinking of stocks as  stocks or part of a stock market. Stocks are  part of a business. People in this room  (Berkshire shareholders) own a piece of a  business. If the business does well, they’re  

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 going to do all right as long as they don’t   pay way too much to join into that business.”   — 1997 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Buffett’s goal is to buy when the price is  below a company’s “intrinsic value.” “The intrinsic value of any business, if you  could foresee the future perfectly, is the  present value of all cash that will be ever  distributed for that business between now  and judgment day. “And we’re not perfect at estimating that,  obviously. (Laughs) “But that’s what an investment or a business  is all about. You put money in, and you   take money out. “Aesop said, ‘A bird in the hand is worth two  in the bush.’ Now, he said that around 600  B.C. or something like that, but that hasn’t  been improved on very much by the business  professors now.”   — 2014 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING  The stock market is there to serve you,   not instruct you. Many nonprofessional investors become  concerned when stock prices fall. They think  the market is telling them they made a  mistake. Some may even be so shaken that  they sell stocks at the lower prices. Buffett takes the opposite view. If he buys   a stock because he thinks the company will   be a long-term winner, he doesn’t let the  market convince him otherwise. “My enthusiasm for stocks is in direct proportion to how far they go down. I like it  when things I like go down in price. … “AmIbetteroffifIhavetopayhighpricesor low prices? So, it’s not bad news for us when  stocks go down at all. Now, you know, it’s   bad news for us when something goes wrong  with a company.  “But the fact that something gets cheaper,   I mean, if I walked into McDonald’s tomorrow  and they’ve cut the prices of hamburgers   by half, you know, I will be happy because   I’m going to be buying hamburgers for a    — CNBC SQUAWK BOX INTERVIEW, MARCH 1, 2010 Fear is a natural reaction when stocks fall.  Most people find the pain of losing  something is greater than the pleasure of  gaining something. Buffett talks about the importance of  emotional discipline. “If you have a temperament that when   others are fearful you’re going to get scared  yourself, you know, you are not going to  make a lot of money in securities over time,  in all probability. “You know, people really — if they didn’t look  at quotations — but, of course, the whole  world is urging them to look at quotations,  

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 and more than that, do something based on  small changes in quotations…   “Think how much more rational investing in a  farm is than the way many people buy stocks. “If you buy a farm, do you get a quote next  week, do you get a quote next month? If you  buy an apartment house, do you get a quote  next week or month? “No, you look at the apartment house or the  farm and you say, I expect it to produce so  many bushels of soybeans and corn, and if   it does that, it meets my expectations. … “Some people really do not have the —  apparently, they don’t have the temperament,  or emotional stability, or whatever it may be,  to invest in securities. … “In the end, what counts is buying a good  business at a decent price, and then forgetting  about it for a long, long, long time. And some  people can do it and some people can’t.”   — 2010 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING The traditional view is that investors face  greater risk when stock prices are making  big moves, up or down. For Buffett, that  volatility is good because there’s a greater  chance there will be “mistakes” in the   market. And when those mistakes push a  stock price lower, it can be an opportunity.   “Ben Graham used the example of    ‘Mr. Market.’ …   “And Ben said, “You know, just imagine that  whenyoubuyastock,thatyou—ineffect, you’ve bought into a business where you  have this obliging partner who comes around  everydayandoffersyouapriceatwhich you’ll either buy or sell. And the price is  “And no one ever gets that in a private  business,wheredailyyougetabuy-selloffer by a party. But in the stock market you get it.  That’s a huge advantage. And it’s a bigger  advantage if this partner of yours is a heavy- drinking manic depressive. (Laughter) “The crazier he is, the more money you’re  going to make.”   — 1997 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING PRINCIPLE THREE Maintain a margin of safety “Wetrynottodoanythingdifficult.…“Thisis not like Olympic diving. In Olympic diving,  theyhaveadegreeofdifficultyfactor.And  ifyoucandosomeverydifficultdive,the payoffisgreaterifyoudoitwellthanifyou do some very simple dive. “That’s not true in investments. You get paid  just as well for the most simple dive, as long  as you execute it all right. And there’s no  reason to try those three-and-a-halfs when  you get paid just as well for just diving   offthesideofthepoolandgoingincleanly. 

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 “So, we look for one-foot bars to step over  rather than seven-foot or eight-foot bars   to try and set some Olympic record by  jumping over. And it’s very nice, because you  get paid just as well for the one-foot bars.”  — 1998 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Beyond Graham’s three principles, Buffett   has a list of things you should do as   an investor, and things you shouldn’t do. Do buy and hold (mostly) Buffett often says his favorite holding   period is “forever” and recommends buying  a stock that you don’t ever want to sell.   But he stresses, that doesn’t mean he never  sells a stock. If a company loses its long-term  competitive advantage or he thinks the  money can be used for a better opportunity  elsewhere, Buffett will, and has, sold stocks  in Berkshire’s portfolio. Do grab opportunities “Big opportunities come infrequently.   When it’s raining gold, reach for a bucket,   not a thimble.”   — 2009 LETTER TO BERKSHIRE SHAREHOLDERS Do go against the crowd “We simply attempt to be fearful when others  are greedy and to be greedy only when  others are fearful.”   — 1986 LETTER TO BERKSHIRE SHAREHOLDERS Do stay in your “circle of competence” Buffett often uses baseball legend Ted  Williams to illustrate an important aspect of  his investing philosophy. As Buffett explained in an HBO documentary,  “If he waited for the pitch that was really in  his sweet spot, he would bat .400. If he had  to swing at something on the lower corner,  he would probably bat .235. “The trick in investing is just to sit there and  watch pitch after pitch go by and wait for the  one right in your sweet spot. And if people  are yelling, ‘Swing, you bum!’ ignore them.”   And those “fat” pitches are likely to be in  what Buffett calls his “circle of competence”. “You don’t have to be an expert on every  company, or even many. You only have to be  able to evaluate companies within your   circle of competence. The size of that circle   is not very important; knowing its boundaries,  however, is vital.”   — 1996 LETTER TO BERKSHIRE SHAREHOLDERS Do not try to time the market “We don’t have an opinion about where the  stock market’s going to go tomorrow or next  week or next month. So, to sit around and  not do something that’s sensible because  you think there will be something even more  attractive, that’s just not our approach to it. “Anytime we get a chance to do something  that makes sense, we do it. And if it   

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 makes even more sense the next day, and   if we’ve got money, we may do more… “Picking bottoms is basically not our game.  Pricing is our game. And that’s not so   difficult.Pickingbottoms,Ithink,isprobably  — 2009 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Do not get envious of people making  money from risky behavior “People win lotteries every day, but there’s   noreasontohavethataffectyouatall.  You shouldn’t be jealous about it. “If they want to do mathematically unsound  things, and one of them occasionally gets  lucky, and they put the one person on  television, and the million that contributed   to the winnings — with the big slice taken   out for the state — don’t get on,  it’s nothing   to worry about. “Allyouhavetodoisfigureoutwhatmakes sense… Let the rest of the world go its own  way. You don’t want to get into a stupid  game just because it’s available.”   — 2016 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Do not bet against a stock’s price by  “It’s tempting. You see way more stocks that  are dramatically overvalued in your career  than you will see stocks that are dramatically  “It is a very, very tough business because of  the fact that you face unlimited losses, and  because of the fact that people that have  overvalued stocks — very overvalued stocks —   are frequently on some scale between  promoter and crook…  “But it is very painful and, in my experience,   it was a whole lot easier to make money   on the long side.”   — 2001 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING Do not buy stocks on margin “It is crazy, in my view, to borrow money   on securities… It’s insane to risk what you   have and need for something you don’t   “Borrowing money is a way of trying to get  rich a little faster, but there are plenty of  good ways to get rich slowly. And you can  have a lot of fun while you’re getting rich    — CNBC “SQUAWK BOX” INTERVIEW, FEBRUARY 26, 2018 Do not invest in nonproductive assets   like gold and cryptocurrencies “If you owned all the gold in the world you  could have a cube that would be 67 or 68  feet on a side, and you could get a ladder  and you could climb up on top of it, and you  could say, I’m sitting on top of the world,   and think you’re king of the world. “You could fondle it, you could polish it, you  could do all these things with it. Stare at it.  But it isn’t going to do anything… 

WARREN BUFFETT GUIDE TO INVESTING CNBC PRO INVESTOR EDUCATION | VOL. 01 | 2023 “Anytime you buy an asset that can’t do  anything, produce anything, you’re simply  betting on whether somebody else will   pay more for, again, an asset that can’t   “I would bet on good-producing businesses  to outperform something that doesn’t do anything over any period of time.”   — 2011 BERKSHIRE ANNUAL MEETING “If you and I buy various cryptocurrencies,  they’re not going to multiply — they’re not  going to be a bunch of rabbits sitting there   in front of us. They’re just going to sit there. “And I got to hope next time you get more  excited after I've bought it from you, and  then maybe I’ll get more excited and buy it  “And actually, we could sit in the house by  ourselves and we could keep running   up the price between the two of us. But at   the end of the time, there’s one bitcoin  sittingthere.Andnowwe’vegottofind somebody else.”    — CNBC “SQUAWK BOX” INTERVIEW, MAY 7, 2018 Finally, two important things to remember   in investing and life from Warren: you way happier, especially considering  the risk you would have to take. “I wasn’t unhappy when I had $10,000 when   I got out of school. I was having a lot of   fun. I was looking for things to buy. And   the fact that after I spent $10,000 I ran out   of money meant that I just kept looking   for things that were better than the ones   “But if you think that if you have $100,000  that means that you’re an unhappy person  and a million dollars is going to make you  happy, it is not going to happen. Then you’ll  look around and you’ll see people with two  million. And it just doesn’t work that way. “You will not be way happier if you double  your net worth. You’ll get kind of a euphoric  surge or something like that, but to risk  starting all over again and losing everything…  it’s just madness.”   — CNBC "SQUAWK BOX" INTERVIEW, FEBRUARY 26, 2018 “Unconditional love is the most powerful  force in the universe. I got unconditional love  from my parents... and I’ve been blessed in  that I love what I’m doing so much that I  have no desire to get away. I’m playing in my   — WARREN BUFFETT SPEAKING TO HARVARD STUDENTS, Get a summary of news and features related  to Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway  delivered straight to your email inbox.   Sign up for the weekly WarrenBuffettWatch 

•  CNBC TV, LIVE COMMERCIAL- Gain instant access to CNBC Business Day  live broadcast and full-length episodes   on demand on any device.   •  ON-DEMAND VIDEO ARCHIVES  Access the extensive archive of our   Pro Talks streaming video series featuring  one-on-one discussions with top CEOs   and industry leaders.  •  PREMIUM ACCESS TO STOCK  PICKS & ANALYST CALLS  Make informed investment decisions with  exclusive analysis and stock picks from  industry experts. Charting, analysts’  updates, consensus ratings, and price  targets are displayed in new data  visualization tools.   •  PRO PLAYBOOK  Stay ahead of the curve and game plan   for the trading day with Pro Playbook— delivered to your inbox every morning  before the market opens.   •  EXCLUSIVE STORIES & ARTICLES  Access feature-length articles, case studies,  and contextualized coverage of the  financial markets produced by CNBC Pro’s  dedicated editorial team.   •  EXPERT RESEARCH & ANALYSIS    Gain a deeper understanding of what’s  happening on Wall Street with exclusive  access to research and analysis of the  latest financial news and trends.   SUBSCRIBE TO CNBC PRO Gain an investing advantage with exclusive access to perks like CNBC’s  industry-leading expert research and analysis, essential investing   tools, premium editorial & video content, and global daytime coverage   of commercial-free CNBC TV live, streaming on any device. CNBC PRO. Your next best investment starts here: cnbc.com/CNBCPro Subscribe Today | cnbc.com/CNBCPro CNBC PRO MEMBERSHIP BENEFITS 

