Investment is traditionally defined as the "commitment of resources to achieve later benefits". If an investment involves money, then it can be defined as a "commitment of money to receive more money later". From a broader viewpoint, an investment can be defined as "to tailor the pattern of expenditure and receipt of resources to optimise the desirable patterns of these flows". When expenditures and receipts are defined in terms of money, then the net monetary receipt in a time period is termed cash flow, while money received in a series of several time periods is termed cash flow stream.
In finance, the purpose of investing is to generate a return on the invested asset. The return may consist of a capital gain (profit) or loss, realised if the  investment is sold, unrealised capital appreciation (or depreciation) if yet unsold. It may also consist of periodic income such as dividends, interest, or rental income. The return may also include currency gains or losses due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Investors generally expect higher returns from riskier investments. When a low-risk investment is made, the return is also generally low. Similarly, high risk comes with a chance of high losses. Investors, particularly novices, are often advised to diversify their portfolio. Diversification has the statistical effect of reducing overall risk.


== Types of financial investments ==
In modern economies, traditional investments include:

Stocks - Business ownership, known as equity, in publicly traded companies
Bonds - loans to governments and businesses traded on public markets
Cash - holding a particular currency, whether in anticipation of spending or to take advantage of or hedge against changes in a currency exchange rate
Real estate, which can be rented to provide ongoing income or resold if it increases in value
Alternative investments include:

Private equity in businesses that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange, often involving venture capital funds, angel investors, or equity crowdfunding
Other loans, including mortgages
Commodities, such as precious metals like gold, agricultural products like potatoes, and energy deliveries like natural gas
Collectables, including art, coins, vintage cars, postage stamps, and wine
Carbon offsets and credits
Digital entities like cryptocurrency and non-fungible tokens
Hedge funds that use sophisticated techniques like:
Derivatives, the value of which is determined by a contract and is derived by calculation from the performance of some other sort of underlying investment; these include forwards, futures, options, swaps, collateralized debt obligations, credit default swaps, and Tax Receivable Agreements
Leveraged investing, which is the investment of borrowed money
Short selling, which typically uses leverage and derivatives to bet that the value of a stock will decline


== Investment and risk ==
An investor may bear a risk of loss of some or all of their capital invested. Investment differs from arbitrage, in which profit is generated without investing capital or bearing risk.
Savings bear the (normally remote) risk that the financial provider may default.
Foreign currency savings also bear foreign exchange risk: if the currency of a savings account differs from the account holder's home currency, then there is the risk that the exchange rate between the two currencies will move unfavourably so that the value of the savings account decreases, measured in the account holder's home currency.
Even investing in tangible assets like property has its risk. And similar to most risks, property buyers can seek to mitigate any potential risk by taking out mortgage and by borrowing at a lower loan to security ratio.
In contrast with savings, investments tend to carry more risk, in the form of both a wider variety of risk factors and a greater level of uncertainty.
Industry to industry volatility is more or less of a risk depending. In biotechnology, for example, investors lo