 The Complete Guide to Trading  

The Complete Guide to Trading  (How to Trade the Markets and Win)  A Publication of The Corporate Finance Institute  

“When you think the market can’t possibly go any higher (or lower), it almost  invariably will, and whenever you think the market “must” go in one direction,  nine times out of ten it will go in the opposite direction. Be forever skeptical of  thinking that you know what the market is going to do.”   – William Gallaher  

About Corporate Finance Institute®  CFI is a world-leading provider of online financial analyst training programs. CFI’s courses, programs,  and certifications have been delivered to tens of thousands of individuals around the world to help  them become world-class financial analysts.  The analyst certification program begins where business school ends to teach you job-based skills for  corporate finance, investment banking, corporate development, treasury, financial planning and analysis  (FP&A), and accounting.  CFI courses have been designed to make the complex simple by distilling large amounts of information  into an easy to follow format. Our training will give you the practical skills, templates, and tools  necessary to advance your career and stand out from the competition.  Our financial analyst training program is suitable for students of various professional backgrounds and  is designed to teach you everything from the bottom up. By moving through the three levels of mastery,  you can expect to be performing industry-leading corporate finance analysis upon successful  completion of the courses.  About CFI’s Complete Guide to Trading  The following eBook’s purpose is to outline all the necessary fundament skills needed to understand the  capital markets in a trading context. The three-part guide will walk you through the markets, trading  concepts, and technical analysis and trading strategies.  Produced after hours of research and planning  by current and former professionals in the trading industry, you will become familiar with applicable  knowledge that will allow you to be competitive in today’s markets. 

Copyright © 2018 CFI Education Inc.   All rights reserved.  No part of this work may be reproduced or used in any form whatsoever, including  photocopying, without prior written permission of the publisher.   This book is intended to provide accurate information with regard to the subject matter covered at the  time of publication.  However, the author and publisher accept no legal responsibility for errors or  omissions in the subject matter contained in this book, or the consequences thereof.  Corporate Finance Institute  learning@1-800-817-7539  www.At various points in the manual a number of financial analysis issues are examined.   The financial  analysis implications for these issues, although relatively standard in treatment, remain an opinion of  the authors of this manual.  No responsibility is assumed for any action taken or inaction as a result of  the financial analysis included in the manual.  

Table of contents  Part One – The Markets  Understanding Asset Classes  Types of Markets  The Fixed Income Market  The Money Market  The Stock Market  Exchange-Traded Funds  Commodity Futures  The Forex Market  Part Two – Trading Concepts  Random Walk Theory  Fundamental and Technical Analysis  How to Read Stock Charts  Stock Trading – Value Investing  Stock Trading - Growth Investing  Part Three – Technical and Trading Strategies  Technical Analysis – A Basic Guide  The ADX Indicator  Triangle Patterns  The Trin Indicator  The MACD Indicator  A Pin Bar Scalping Strategy  The Three Simplest Trend Following Strategies  The Psychology of Trading Winning Mindset  Six Essential Skills of Master Traders  Trading Inspiration: Quotes from the Masters  



Understanding Asset Classes  When you trade, you trade financial assets of one kind or another.  There are different classes, or types, of assets – such as fixed  income investments - that are grouped together based on their  having a similar financial structure and because they are typically  traded in the same financial markets and subject to the same rules  and regulations.  There’s some argument about exactly how many different classes  of assets there are, but many analysts commonly divide assets into  the following five categories:  Stocks, or equities - Equities are shares of ownership that are  issued by publicly traded companies and traded on stock  exchanges, such as the NYSE or Nasdaq. You can potentially  profit from equities either through a rise in the share price or  by receiving dividends.  Bonds, or other fixed income investments (such as  certificates of deposit – CDs) – Fixed-income investments are  investments in securities that pay a fixed rate of return in the  form of interest. While not all fixed income investments offer  a specific guaranteed return, such investments are generally  considered to be less risk than investing in equities or other  asset classes.  Cash or cash equivalents, such as money market funds – The  primary advantage of cash or cash equivalent investments is  their liquidity. Money held in the form of cash or cash  equivalents can be quickly and easily accessed at any time.  Real estate, or other tangible assets – Real estate or other  tangible assets are considered as an asset class that offers  protection against inflation. The tangible nature of such  assets also leads to them being considered as more of a  “real” asset, as compared to assets that exist only in the form  of financial instruments.  To learn more, please check  out our online courses  

Futures and other financial derivatives – This category  includes futures contracts, the forex market, options, and an  expanding array of financial derivatives.  It’s difficult to classify some assets. For example, suppose you’re  investing in stock market futures. Should those be classified with  equities, since they’re essentially an investment in the stock market,  or with futures, since they’re futures? Gold and silver are tangible  assets, but are most frequently traded in the form of commodity  futures or options, which are financial derivatives. If you invest in a  real estate investment trust (REIT), should that be considered an  investment in real estate or as an equity investment since REITs are  exchange-traded securities?  Things are further complicated by the expansion in available  investments. Exchange-traded funds (ETFs), for example, are traded  like stocks on equity exchanges, but ETFs may be composed of  investments from one or more of the five basic asset classes. An  ETF that offers exposure to the gold market may be partly  composed of investments in gold bullion and partly composed of  stock shares of gold mining companies.  There are additional asset classes, such as artwork, various other  collectibles, and peer to peer lending. Hedge funds and other  sources of venture capital, along with markets that trade things  such as Bitcoin and other alternative currencies, represent some  other asset classes that are a bit more off the beaten path.  Generally speaking, the more an investment falls into the category  of “alternative investment”, the less liquid and the more risky it  Good news! – You don’t really have to know for certain which asset  class a specific investment falls under. You just need to understand  the basic concept that there are broad, general categories of  investments. That fact is primarily important because of the  concept of diversification. Diversification is the idea that you can  reduce the overall risk of your investment portfolio by investing in  different types of investments, such as investments in different  asset classes.  There is usually little correlation between the different asset  classes. In other words, during periods of time when equities are  performing well, bonds, real estate, and commodities may not be  performing well for investors. However, during bear markets in  stocks, other assets, such as real estate or bonds, may be showing  investors above average returns. You can hedge your investments  

in one asset class, reducing your risk exposure by simultaneously  holding investments in other asset classes.  The practice of  reducing investment portfolio risk by diversifying your investments  across different asset classes is referred to as asset allocation.  The other reason to have a basic understanding of asset classes is  just to help your recognize the nature of various investments that  you may choose to trade. For example, you might choose to devote  all, or nearly all, of your investment capital to trading futures or  other financial derivatives, such as foreign currency exchange  (forex). But if you do, you ought to at least be aware that you have  chosen to trade a class of assets that is usually considered to carry  significantly more risk than bonds or equities.  The extent to which you choose to employ asset allocation as a  means of diversification is going to be an individual decision that is  guided by your personal investment goals and your risk tolerance.  If you’re very risk averse – have an extremely low risk tolerance –  then you may just want to invest only in the relatively safe asset  class of fixed-income investments. Alternately, you may aim to  further diversify within an asset class – such as by holding a  selection of large cap, mid cap, and small cap stocks, or by investing  in various industry sectors of the stock market.  On the other hand, if you’re blessed with a high risk tolerance  and/or having money to burn, you may care very little about  diversification, being more focused on trying to correctly identify  the asset class that currently offers the highest potential profits.  

Types of Markets – Dealers, Brokers, and  For the buying and selling of assets, there are several different  types of markets that facilitate trade. Each market operates under  different trading mechanisms.  The three main types of markets are:  Dealer Markets  A dealer market operates with a dealer who acts as a counterparty  for both buyers and sellers. The dealer sets bid and asks prices for  the security in question, and will trade with any investor willing to  accept those prices. Securities sold by dealers are sometimes  referred to as being traded over-the-counter (OTC).  By acting as a counterparty for both buyers and sellers, the dealer  provides liquidity in the market at the cost of a small premium that  exists in the form of bid and ask spreads. In other words, dealers  set bid prices slightly lower than the going market price and ask  prices slightly higher than the market. The spread between these  prices is the profit the dealer makes in return for assuming the  counterparty risk.  Dealer markets are less common in stocks, more common in bonds  and currency markets. Dealer markets are also appropriate for  futures and options, or other standardized contracts and financial  derivatives. Finally, the forex, or foreign exchange market is  commonly operated through dealers, with banks and currency  exchanges acting as the intermediary connecting dealers with  buyers and sellers.  Of the three types of markets, the dealer market is usually the most  liquid, because of the fact that the dealer’s existence means that  there will always be an available counterparty to traders wanting to  Broker Markets  A broker market operates by finding a counterparty for both buyers  and sellers.  When dealers act as the counterparty, the delay with  

brokers finding an appropriate counterparty results in less liquidity  for brokered markets as compared to dealer markets.  Traditionally, stock markets were brokered. Stockbrokers would try  to find an appropriate counterparty for their client on the trading  floor of a stock exchange. This is the stereotypical image that Wall  Street used to be known for, with men and women in suits yelling  at each other while holding pieces of paper representing their  clients orders that they are seeking to fill.  Broker markets are used for all manner of securities, especially  those with initial issues. A stock initial public offering (IPO), for  example, will usually be launched through an investment bank  which brokers the issue trying to find buyers. There is a similar  procedure for new bond issues. Finally, brokered markets are also  appropriate for tailored or custom financial products.  Of the three types of markets, the exchange is the most highly  automated. However, if no buyers and sellers are able to meet in  terms of price, then no trades are executed. Because of the huge  number of potential buyers and sellers trading through exchanges,  such a situation is extremely unlikely and commonly only occurs in  times of economic crisis. In practice, the large numbers of buyers  and sellers makes a stock exchange virtually just as liquid as a  dealer market.  Although stockbrokers do still input orders for clients, the stock  market is no longer truly a brokered market, having transitioned to  operating as an automated exchange. Trades are executed based  on order books that match buyers with sellers.  The advantage of an exchange is the provision of a central location  for buyers and sellers to find counterparties. Exchanges are used  for all manner of securities, but are most appropriate for  standardized securities such as stocks, bonds, futures contracts,  and options. Exchanges typically specify the characteristics for  securities that are traded on the exchange.  Exchange-Specified Characteristics  Contract or Lot Size  Contract Execution/Trading Months  Delivery Terms  

Delivery terms and quality are not commonly specified in stock  exchange trading or bond trading. In a stock exchange transaction,  all that is stated is the contract and tick size, as well as the  execution, which is typically immediate.  Contract sizes for securities or financial instruments are typically  set to a minimum amount. For example, a stock might only be  available for purchase in lots of 100 on a certain exchange. Tick size  is commonly the lowest denomination of a currency. On US stock  exchanges, the lowest tick price is one cent. A minimum 100-lot  contract size under such conditions might then have a minimum  tick value of $1 ($0.01 x 100 shares per lot).  Delivery terms and quality are more appropriately used in  reference to commodity trading and to derivatives involving  commodity-like assets. Gold and diamonds, for example, have  qualities and ratings. Additionally, there must be provisions for  potential delivery of the physical asset to the buyer or contract  holder. Such characteristics are specified by the exchange an asset  or financial instrument is traded on.  

The Fixed Income Market  Fixed income securities such as Treasury bonds are a type of debt  instrument that provides returns in the form of regular, or fixed,  payments and repayments of the principal when maturity is  reached. These instruments are issued by governments,  corporations and other entities to finance their operations. They  differ from equity, as they do not entail ownership in a company,  but bonds usually have seniority of claim in cases of bankruptcy or  Fixed income securities are generally considered a safer investment  than equities or other market investments, but do not usually offer  investment returns as high as those that can be obtained through  other investments.  The term fixed income refers to interest payments that an investor  receives, which are based on the creditworthiness of the borrower  and current market rates. Generally speaking, fixed income  securities such as bonds pay a higher rate of interest - known as  the coupon - the longer their maturities are. At the end of the term  or maturity, the borrower returns the borrowed money, known as  the principal, or par value, amount.  The primary risks associated with fixed income securities concern  the borrower’s vulnerability to defaulting on its debt. In turn, this  risk is incorporated in the interest or coupon that the security pays  the investor. Additional risks involving the exchange rate for  international bonds can be of concern, as well as the risk that  changes in interest rates may increase (or decrease) the market  value of a bond currently held. This is known as interest rate risk.  Credit/default risk arises if the issuer of a security is unable to pay  interest and/or principal in a timely fashion. The probability of  credit/default risk occurring depends on the issuer’s ability to meet  their financial obligations and on their credit worthiness. There is a  negative correlation between credit rating and yield – the lower a  bond issuer’s credit rating, the higher the yield that will be offered  to compensate for higher risk. A change in the issuer’s credit rating  affects the value of their outstanding fixed income securities.  There is a purchasing power risk associated with fixed income  securities because the real rate of return on fixed income  investments equals the rate of return minus the rate of inflation.  During periods of high inflation, the real rate of return on fixed  income investments may become negative.  

The price of a bond depends on several characteristics that apply to  every bond issued. These characteristics are as follows:  Coupon, or lack thereof - A bond may or may not come with  attached coupons. A coupon is stated as a nominal  percentage on the par value of the bond. Each coupon is  redeemable per period for that percentage. A bond may also  come with no coupon. In this case, the bond is known as a  zero-coupon bond. Zero-coupon bonds are typically priced  lower than bonds with coupons.  Principal/par value - Every bond comes with a par value – the  principal amount that is repaid at maturity. Without the  principal value, a bond would have no use. The principal  value is to be repaid to the lender (the bond purchaser) by  the borrower (the bond issuer). A zero-coupon bond pays no  coupons but guarantees the principal amount at maturity.  The interest paid on a zero-coupon bond is delivered in the  form of the bond price being less than the principal amount  that will be paid at maturity. For example, a zero-coupon  bond with a par value of $1,000 might be available for  purchase for $900. When the purchaser of the bond receives  the $1,000 par value on the bond’s maturity date, they have,  in effect, received approximately 10% interest on the bond.  Yield to maturity - Bonds are priced to yield a certain return  to investors. A bond that sells at a premium (where price is  above par value) will have a yield to maturity that is lower  than the coupon rate. Alternatively, the causality of the  relationship between yield to maturity and price may be  reversed. A bond could be sold at a higher price if the  intended yield (market interest rate) is lower than the coupon  rate. This is because the bondholder will receive coupon  payments that are higher than the market interest rate, and  will therefore pay a premium for the difference.  Coupon Periods to Maturity – Bonds vary in the number of  coupon payments that occur until the bond matures. More  frequent coupon (interest) payments are considered more  desirable and typically increase the price of a bond.  All else being equal, the following statements about bond pricing  

A bond with a higher coupon rate will be priced higher.  A bond with a higher par value will be priced higher.  A bond with a higher number of periods to maturity will be priced  A bond with a higher yield to maturity or market rates will be priced  An easier way to remember this is that bonds are priced higher for  all characteristics except for yield to maturity. A higher yield to  maturity results in lower bond pricing.  

The Money Market  The money market is an organized exchange market where  participants can lend and borrow short-term, high-quality debt  securities for one year or less. The market allows governments,  companies, or banks and other financial institutions to obtain  short-term securities to fund their short-term cash flow needs. It  also allows individual investors to invest small amounts of money  in a low-risk market. Some of the instruments traded in this market  include Treasury bills, certificates of deposit, commercial paper,  bills of exchange, and short-term mortgage-backed or asset-backed  Large corporations with short-term cash flow needs can borrow  from the money market directly through a dealer while small  companies with excess cash can lend money through money  market mutual funds. Individual traders who want to profit from  the money market can invest through a money market bank  account or money market mutual fund. A money market mutual  fund is a professionally managed fund that buys money market  securities on behalf of individual investors.  Functions of the Money Market  The money market contributes to a smooth-running economy of a  country by providing short-term liquidity to governments, banks,  and other large organizations. Investors with excess money that  they do not immediately need can invest it in the money market  and earn interest.  Here are the main functions of the money market:  #1 Financing Trade  The money market provides financing to local and international  traders who are in an urgent need of short-term funds. It provides  a facility to discount bills of exchange, and this provides buyers of  goods with immediate financing to pay for such goods. The money  market also makes funds available for other units of the economy,  such as agriculture and small-scale industries.  #2 Central Bank Policies  The central bank is responsible for guiding the monetary policy of a  country and taking measures to ensure a healthy financial system.  Through the money market, the central bank can perform part of  its policy-making function efficiently. For example, the short-term  interest rates in the money market represent the prevailing  

conditions in the banking industry and can guide the central bank  in developing an appropriate future interest rate policy. Also, by  adjusting the interest rates at which government-issued debt, such  as Treasury bills and bonds, are offered, the central bank can  influence interest rates for all types of fixed-income financial  #3 Growth of Industries  The money market provides an easy avenue for companies to  obtain short-term loans to finance their working capital or other  cash flow needs. Due to the large volumes of transactions,  companies may experience cash shortages in regard to buying raw  materials, paying employees, or meeting other short-term  expenses. Through commercial paper or similar financing, they can  borrow and obtain funds almost immediately for a relatively short  loan duration. Although the money market does not provide long- term loans, it influences the overall capital market and can help  companies obtain long-term financing. The capital market  benchmarks its interest rates based on the prevailing interest rate  in the money market.  #4 Commercial Banks Self-Sufficiency  The money market provides commercial banks with a ready market  where they can invest their excess reserves and earn interest while  maintaining liquidity. The short-term investments such as bills of  exchange can easily be converted to cash to support customer  withdrawals. Also, when faced with liquidity problems, they can  borrow from the money market on a short-term basis as an  alternative to borrowing from the central bank.  Instruments Traded in the Money Market  Several financial instruments are created for short-term lending  and borrowing in the money market, such as the following:  #1 Treasury Bills  Treasury bills are considered the safest money market instruments  because they are issued with a full guarantee by the United States  government. They are regularly issued by the U.S. Treasury to  refinance Treasury bills reaching maturity and to finance  government deficits. T-bills have a maturity of one, three, six, or  twelve months. They are sold at a discount to their face value, and  the difference between the discounted purchases price and face  value represents the interest rate paid to investors. They are  commonly purchased by banks, broker-dealers, individual  

investors, pension funds, insurance companies, and other large  #2 Certificates of Deposit  A certificate of deposit (CD) is issued directly by a commercial bank,  but it can also be purchased through brokerage firms. It has a  maturity date ranging from three months to five years and can be  issued in any denomination. Most CDs have a fixed maturity date  and interest rate, and they extract a penalty for cashing in the CD  prior to the time of maturity. Any time after the expiry of the CD’s  maturity date, the principal amount and interest earned is available  for withdrawal. CDs are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance  Corporation (FDIC).  #3 Commercial Paper  Commercial paper is an unsecured loan issued by large  institutional buyers to finance short-term financial needs such as  inventory and accounts receivables. It is issued at a discount, with  the difference between the price and face value of the commercial  paper being the profit in interest paid to the investor. Typically, only  large institutions with a high credit rating can issue commercial  paper, and it is, therefore, considered a very safe investment.  Commercial paper is issued in denominations of $100,000 and  above. Individual investors can invest in commercial paper  indirectly through money market funds. Commercial paper usually  has a maturity date of less than one year from the date of issue.  #4 Banker’s Acceptance Notes  A banker’s acceptance note is a short-term debt instrument issued  by a non-financial institution but guaranteed by a commercial bank.  It is created by a drawer, providing the bearer the right to the  monetary amount indicated on its face at a specified date. It is  often used in international trade because of the benefits to both  the drawer (issuer) and bearer (holder). The holder of the  acceptance note may decide to sell it on a secondary market. The  date of maturity for banker’s acceptance notes usually ranges  between one month and six months from the date of issue.  #5 Repurchase Agreements  A repurchase agreement, commonly known as a “repo”, is a short- term form of borrowing that involves selling a security with an  agreement to repurchase it at a higher price at a later date. It is  commonly used by dealers in government securities who sell  Treasury bills to a lender and agree to repurchase them at an  

agreed upon price at a later date. The Federal Reserve buys  repurchase agreements as a way of regulating the money supply  and bank reserves. Repo dates of maturity range from overnight to  30 days or more.  The money market exists to facilitate short-term cash flow needs.  Because of the fact that most money market instruments are  issued by either government entities or large financial institutions,  and also because most money market instruments mature within a  short period of time, money market instruments are considered  among the safest of fixed income investments. However, short- term maturities and low risk translate to lower profit potential for  investors. For example, while a 10-year bond issued by a private  corporation might offer investors a 5% interest rate, a three-month  Treasury bill might only offer an interest rate return of just 1%.  

The Stock Market  The stock market refers to public markets that exist for issuing,  buying, and selling of stocks that trade on a stock exchange or  over-the-counter. Stocks, also known as equities, represent  fractional ownership in a company, asset, or security, and so the  stock market is a place where investors can buy and sell ownership  of such investable assets. An efficiently functioning stock market is  critical to economic development, as it gives companies the ability  to quickly access capital from the public.  Purposes of the Stock Market – Capital and Investment Income  The stock market serves two very important purposes. The first is  to provide capital to companies that they can use to fund and  expand their businesses. If a company issues one million shares of  stock that initially sell for $10 a share, then that provides the  company with $10 million of capital that it can use to grow its  business (minus whatever fees the company pays for an  investment bank to manage the stock offering). By offering stock  shares instead of borrowing the capital needed for expansion, the  company avoids incurring debt and paying interest charges on that  The secondary purpose that the stock market serves is to give  investors – those who purchase stocks – the opportunity to share in  the profits of publicly-traded companies. Investors can profit from  stock buying in one of two ways. Some stocks pay regular dividends  (a given amount of money per share of stock someone owns). The  other way investors can profit from buying stocks is by selling their  stock for a profit if the stock price increases from their purchase  price. For example, if an investor buys shares of a company’s stock  at $10 a share and the price of the stock subsequently rises to $15  a share, the investor can then realize a 50% profit on their  investment by selling their shares.  History of Stock Trading  Although stock trading dates back as far as the mid-1500s in  Antwerp, modern stock trading is generally recognized as starting  with the trading of shares in the East India Company in London.  Throughout the 1600s, British, French, and Dutch governments  provided charters to a number of companies that included East  India in the name. All goods brought back from the east were  transported by sea, involving risky trips often threatened by severe  storms and pirates. To mitigate these risks, ship owners regularly  

sought out investors to proffer financing collateral for a voyage. In  return, investors received a portion of the monetary returns  realized if the ship made it back successfully, loaded with goods for  sale. These are the earliest examples of limited liability companies  (LLCs), and many held together only long enough for one voyage.  The formation of the East India Company in London eventually led  to a new investment model, with importing companies offering  stocks that essentially represented a fractional ownership interest  in these companies, and that offered investors dividends on all  proceeds from all the voyages a company funded, instead of just a  single trip. The new business model made it possible for the  companies to ask for larger investments per share, enabling them  to easily increase the size of their shipping fleets. Investing in such  companies, they are often protected from competition by royally- issued charters, which became very popular due to the fact that  investors could potentially realize massive profits on their  The First Shares and the First Exchange  Company shares were issued on paper, enabling investors to trade  shares back and forth with other investors, but regulated  exchanges did not exist until the formation of the London Stock  Exchange (LSE) in 1773. Although a significant amount of financial  turmoil followed the immediate establishment of the LSE, exchange  trading overall managed to survive and grow throughout the 1800s.  The Beginnings of the New York Stock Exchange  Enter the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), established in 1792.  Though not the first on U.S. soil – that honor goes to the  Philadelphia Stock Exchange (PSE) – the NYSE rapidly grew to  become the dominant stock market in the United States and  eventually in the world. The NYSE occupied a physically strategic  position, located among some of the country’s largest banks and  companies, not to mention being situated in a major shipping port.  The exchange established listing requirements for shares, and  rather hefty fees initially, enabling it to quickly become a wealthy  institution itself.  Modern Stock Trading – The Changing Face of Global Exchanges  Domestically, the NYSE saw meager competition for more than two  centuries, and its growth was primarily fueled by an ever-growing  American economy. The LSE continued to dominate the European  market for stock trading, but the NYSE became home to a  continually expanding number of large companies. Other major  

countries, such as France and Germany, eventually developed their  own stock exchanges, though these were often viewed primarily as  stepping stones for companies on their way to listing with the LSE  The late 20th century saw the expansion of stock trading into many  other exchanges, including the NASDAQ, which became a favorite  home of burgeoning technology companies, which gained  increased importance during the technology sector boom of the  1980s and 1990s. The NASDAQ emerged as the first exchange  operating between a web of computers that electronically executed  trades. Electronic trading made the entire process of trading more  time and cost-efficient. In addition to the rise of the NASDAQ, the  NYSE faced increasing competition from stock exchanges in  Australia and Hong Kong, the financial center of Asia.  The NYSE eventually merged with Euronext, which formed in 2000  through the merger of the Brussels, Amsterdam, and Paris  exchanges. The NYSE/Euronext merger in 2007 established the first  trans-Atlantic exchange.  How Stocks are Traded – Exchanges and OTC  Most stocks are traded on exchanges such as the New York Stock  Exchange (NYSE) or the NASDAQ. Stock exchanges essentially  provide the marketplace to facilitate the buying and selling of  stocks among investors. Stock exchanges are regulated by  government agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC) in the United States, that oversee the market in  order to protect investors from financial fraud and to keep the  exchange market functioning smoothly.  Although the vast majority of stocks are traded on exchanges,  some stocks are traded over the counter (OTC), where buyers and  sellers of stocks commonly trade through a dealer, or “market  maker”, who specifically deals with the stock. OTC stocks are stocks  that do not meet the minimum price or other requirements for  being listed on exchanges.  OTC stocks are not subject to the same public reporting regulations  as stocks listed on exchanges, so it is not as easy for investors to  obtain reliable information on the companies issuing such stocks.  Stocks in the OTC market are typically much more thinly traded  than exchange-traded stocks, which means that investors often  must deal with large spreads between bid and ask prices for an  OTC stock. In contrast, exchange-traded stocks are much more  liquid, with relatively small bid-ask spreads.  

Stock Market Players – Investment Banks, Stockbrokers, and  There are a number of regular participants in stock market trading.  Investment banks handle the initial public offering – IPO - of stock  that occurs when a company first decides to become a publicly- traded company by offering stock shares.  Here’s an example of how an IPO works. A company that wishes to  go public and offer stock shares approaches an investment bank to  act as the “underwriter” of the company’s initial stock offering. The  investment bank, after researching the company’s total value and  taking into consideration what percentage of ownership the  company wishes to relinquish in the form of stock shares, handles  the initial issuing of shares in the market in return for a fee, while  guaranteeing the company a determined minimum price per share.  It is therefore in the best interests of the investment bank to see  that all the shares offered are sold, and at the highest possible  Shares offered in IPOs are most commonly purchased by large  institutional investors such as pension funds or mutual fund  The IPO market is known as the primary, or initial, market. Once a  stock has been issued in the primary market, all trading in the stock  thereafter occurs through the stock exchanges in what is known as  the secondary market. The term “secondary market” is a bit  misleading, since this is the market where the overwhelming  majority of stock trading occurs day to day.  Stockbrokers, who may or may not also be acting as financial  advisors, buy and sell stocks for their clients, who may be either  institutional investors or individual retail investors.  Equity research analysts may be employed by stock brokerage  firms, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, or investment banks.  These are individuals who research publicly-traded companies and  attempt to forecast whether a company’s stock is likely to rise or  fall in price.  Fund managers or portfolio managers, which include hedge fund  managers, mutual fund managers, and exchange-traded  fund managers, are important stock market participants because  they buy and sell large quantities of stocks. If a popular mutual  fund decides to invest heavily in a particular stock, that demand for  

the stock alone is often significant enough to drive the stock’s price  noticeably higher.  Stock Market Indexes  The overall performance of the stock markets is usually tracked  and reflected in the performance of various stock market indexes.  Stock indexes are composed of a selection of stocks that is  designed to reflect how stocks are performing overall. Stock market  indexes themselves are traded in the form of options and futures  contracts which are also traded on regulated exchanges.  Among the key stock market indexes are the Dow Jones Industrial  Average (DJIA), Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (S&P 500), the Financial  Times Stock Exchange 100 Index (FTSE 100), the Nikkei 225 Index,  the NASDAQ Composite Index, and the Hang Seng Index.  Bull and Bear Markets, and Short Selling  Two of the basic concepts of stock market trading are “bull” and  “bear” markets. The term bull market is used to refer to a stock  market in which the price of stocks is generally rising. This is the  type of market most investors prosper in, as the majority of stock  investors are buyers, rather than sellers, of stocks. A bear market  exists when stock prices are overall declining in price.  Investors can still profit even in bear markets through short selling.  Short selling is the practice of borrowing stock that the investor  does not hold from a brokerage firm which does own shares of the  stock. The investor then sells the borrowed stock shares in the  secondary market and receives the money from that sale of stock.  If the stock price declines as the investor hopes, then the investor  can realize a profit by purchasing a sufficient number of shares to  return to the broker the number of shares they borrowed.  For example, if an investor believes that the stock of company “A” is  likely to decline from its current price of $20 a share, the investor  can put down what is known as a margin deposit in order to  borrow 100 shares from his broker. He then sells those shares for  $20 each, the current price, which gives him $2,000. If the stock  then falls to $10 a share, the investor can then buy 100 shares to  return to his broker for only $1,000, leaving him with a $1,000  Analyzing Stocks – Market Cap, EPS, and Financial Ratios  Stock market analysts and investors may look at a variety of factors  to indicate a stock’s probable future direction, up or down in price.  

Here’s a rundown on some of the most commonly viewed variables  for stock analysis.  A stock’s market capitalization, or market cap, is the total value of  all the outstanding shares of the stock. A higher market  capitalization usually indicates a company that is more well- established and financially sound.  Publicly traded companies are required by exchange regulatory  bodies to regularly provide earnings reports. These reports, issued  quarterly and annually, are carefully watched by market analysts as  a good indicator of how well a company’s business is doing. Among  the key factors analyzed from earnings reports are the company’s  earnings per share (EPS), which reflects the company’s profits as  divided among all of its outstanding shares of stock.  Analysts and investors also frequently examine any of a number of  financial ratios that are intended to indicate the financial stability,  profitability, and growth potential of a publicly traded company.  Following are a few of the key financial ratios that investors and  analysts consider:  Price to Earnings (P/E) Ratio: The ratio of a company’s  stock price in relation to its EPS. A higher P/E ratio  indicates that investors are willing to pay higher prices  per share for the company’s stock because they expect  the company to grow and the stock price to rise.  Debt to Equity Ratio: This is a fundamental metric of a  company’s financial stability, as it shows what percentage  of company’s operations are being funded by debt as  compared to what percentage are being funded by equity  investors. A lower debt to equity ratio, indicating primary  funding from investors, is preferable.  Return on Equity (ROE) Ratio: The return on equity (ROE)  ratio is considered a good indicator of a company’s  growth potential, as it shows the company’s net income  relative to the total equity investment in the company.  Profit Margin: There are several profit margin ratios that  investors may consider, including operating profit margin  and net profit margin. The advantage of looking at profit  margin over just an absolute dollar profit figure is that it  shows what a company’s percentage profitability is. For  example, a company may show a profit of $2 million, but  if that only translates to a 5% profit margin, then any  

significant decline in revenues may threaten the  company’s profitability.  Other commonly used financial ratios include return on  assets (ROA), dividend yield, price to book (P/B)  ratio, current ratio and the inventory turnover ratio.  Two Basic Approaches to Stock Market Investing – Value  Investing and Growth Investing  There are countless methods of stock picking that analysts and  investors employ, but virtually all of them are one form or another  of the two basic stock buying strategies of value investing or growth  Value investors typically invest in well-established companies that  have shown steady profitability over a long period of time, and that  may offer regular dividend income. Value investing is more focused  on avoiding risk than growth investing is.  Growth investors seek out companies with exceptionally high  growth potential, hoping to realize maximum appreciation in share  price. They are usually less concerned with dividend income and  are more willing to risk investing in relatively young companies.  Technology stocks, because of their high growth potential, are  often favored by growth investors.  

Exchange-Traded Funds  An exchange-traded fund (ETF) is an investment fund that holds  assets such as stocks, commodities, bonds, and foreign currency.  An ETF is traded like a stock, throughout the trading day, at  fluctuating prices. They often track indexes such as the  NASDAQ, S&P 500, Dow Jones, and Russell 2000. Investors in ETFs  do not directly own the underlying investments, but instead have  an indirect claim and are entitled to a portion of the profits and  residual value in case of fund liquidation. Their ownership shares  or interest can be readily bought and sold in the secondary market.  ETFs have begun to eclipse mutual funds as a favored investment  vehicle because they offer investments beyond just stocks, and  because of the fact that ETFs often have lower transaction costs  than the average mutual fund.  Different Types of ETFs  There are many types of ETFS, including the following:  Stock ETFs – These hold a particular set of equities or  stocks and are similar to an index. Stock ETFs commonly  hold a selection of stocks in a given market sector.  Index ETFs – These ETFs have portfolios that are designed  to mimic the performance of a specific stock index, such  as the S&P 500 Index. They only make portfolio changes  when changes happen in the underlying index.  Bond ETFs – These are specifically invested in bonds or  other fixed-income securities.  Commodity ETFs – These ETFs hold physical commodities,  such as agricultural goods, natural resources, and  precious metals.  Currency ETFs – These are invested in a single currency or  a basket of various currencies, and are widely used by  investors who wish to gain exposure to the foreign  exchange market without using futures or trading the  forex market directly.  They usually track the most  popular international currencies, such as the U.S. dollar,  the euro, the British pound, or the Japanese yen.  Inverse ETFs – These are funds built by using various  derivatives to gain profits through short selling when  there is a decline in the value of broad market indexes.  

Leveraged ETFs – These funds mostly consist of financial  derivatives that are used to amplify percentage returns.  It’s important to note that while leveraged ETFs increase  profit potential, they also likewise increase risk.  Real Estate ETFs – These funds invest in real estate  investment trusts (REITs), real estate service firms, and  real estate development companies.  Advantages of Investing in ETFs  There are many advantages to investing in an exchange-traded  fund, including:  Cost benefits: ETFs usually offer a significantly lower  expense ratio than the average mutual fund. This is in  part because of their exchange-traded nature, which  places typical costs on the brokers or the exchange, in  comparison with a mutual fund which must bear the cost  Accessibility to markets: ETFs offer exposure to asset  classes that were previously hard for individual investors  to access, and provide investors with the possibility to  own assets such as emerging markets bonds, gold  bullion, or crypto-currencies. Because ETFs can be sold  short and used to apply other more sophisticated  investment strategies, they represent a broader range of  opportunities for investors.  Transparency: Hedge funds and even mutual funds  operate in a not-so-transparent manner as compared to  ETFs. Hedge funds and mutual funds usually report their  holdings only on a quarterly basis. In contrast, ETFs  clearly disclose their daily portfolio holdings.  Liquidity: Because they can be bought or sold in  secondary markets throughout the day, ETFs are  extremely liquid. This is in contrast to mutual funds which  can only be bought or sold at their end-of-day closing  Tax Efficiency: Generally, ETFs pose a major tax advantage  over mutual funds for two main reasons. First, ETFs  reduce portfolio turnover and offer the ability to avoid  short-term capital gains that incur a higher tax rate.  Second, ETFs can overcome rules that prohibit selling and  

claiming a loss on a security if a very similar security is  bought within a 30-day window.  Potential Drawbacks of ETFS  Despite the abovementioned benefits, ETFs encounter some  challenges as well. For instance, they provide higher exposure to  previously unattended asset classes that could bear risks that  equity investors might not be familiar with. Some sophisticated  examples such as leveraged ETFs involve complex or unfamiliar  portfolio structures, tax treatments, or counterparty risks, which  require clear understanding of the underlying assets.  Additionally, ETFs carry transaction costs that should be carefully  considered in the process of portfolio creations, such as Bid/Ask  spreads and commissions.  Who are the biggest ETF management companies?  As of 2017, there are thousands of ETFs in existence.  If you want to  know who the largest ETF management companies are, here is a  list of the top 10 fund companies ranked by assets under  

Commodity Futures Trading  Commodity futures trading is an often-overlooked investment  arena. There are a number of reasons for this. First of all, it’s simply  not an investment that’s publicly touted as widely as stock trading  and other more common investments. Commodity futures trading  is different from stock trading, so it does require traders to learn  how to handle investments in a different type of market. Also,  many investors have been scared away from commodity trading by  horror stories from investors who lost huge sums in the commodity  markets. The truth is that while commodity trading is a higher risk  venture than conservative fixed-income investments or traditional  stock trading, it is nonetheless a market in which it is possible to  generate high returns that more than justify the additional risk.  Understanding Futures Contracts  Commodity futures are traded in the form of contracts of a  standardized size (for example, 5,000 bushels of wheat) that expire  in different months. This is obviously different from stock shares  that have no expiration date and can be held indefinitely. Futures  for a given commodity can usually be traded as far ahead in time as  two to three years, however, the vast majority of trading nearly  always occurs in the contract with the closest expiration date,  known as the “front month”.  Futures prices are more subject to sudden, volatile price changes  than stocks typically are. A stock that has a long history of steady  price appreciation or dividend payouts is likely to continue that  trend. But with commodity futures, a downtrend in price can  change to an uptrend literally overnight due to factors such as an  unexpected freeze or drought during growing season.  Futures contracts are divided into five main categories:  Agricultural futures, such as corn, wheat, orange juice, and cocoa  Livestock futures, such as lean hogs and live cattle  Energy futures, such as oil, heating oil, and natural gas  Metals futures, such as gold, silver, and copper  Financial futures, such as Treasury bonds, stock indexes, and  Fundamental and Technical Analysis in Commodity Trading  Fundamental forces of supply and demand are what ultimately  move commodity prices. Therefore, there is a high percentage of  

commodity traders who use fundamental analysis to attempt to  predict futures prices. Commodity traders glean information on the  commodity markets from sources such as financial newspapers,  research information from brokers, and government reports.  Advisory services that traders can subscribe to are an important  source of information. Some advisory services feature their own  expert meteorologists offering weather forecasts for important  crop-growing regions, and send their own investigators out to  make personal estimates of eventual expected crop sizes.  Despite the fact that genuine supply and demand factors are what  drive commodity prices, technical trading is still enormously  popular among commodity traders. In fact, many of the most well- known technical indicators that are applied across many other  investing markets, such as stocks and forex, were first developed  by commodity traders.  Advantages of Commodity Trading  Unlike stock trading or investing in mutual funds or ETFs,  commodity trading offers tremendous leverage. In trading  commodity futures, you typically only have to put up about 10% of  the total futures contract value. This enables you to make much  higher percentage gains with your trading capital. For example, you  could hold one S&P 500 Index futures contract with a margin  deposit of just over $20,000, while it would take several hundred  thousand dollars to buy each of the actual stocks contained in the  index. A 20% rise in the Index would return you a more than 100%  profit from buying a futures contract – you’d realize approximately  the same absolute dollar amount in profit as from buying the  stocks in the index, but you would have made that profit with a  much smaller investment.  Commodity futures trading may also offer lower commissions and  trading costs, although, with all the discount stock brokerages that  exist now, that’s not as much an issue as it was 20 years ago.  Commodity trading holds an advantage over illiquid investments  such as real estate since any money in your account that is not  being used to margin market positions that you’re holding is readily  available to you at any time.  One really key advantage – a double advantage, actually – that  commodity trading offers is diversification within simplicity. There  are commodity futures available to trade that cover virtually every  sector of the economy – agriculture, energy, precious metals,  foreign exchange, and stock indexes. However, unlike the stock  

market where there are thousands of stocks to choose from – often  hundreds within any given industry – there are only a few dozen  commodity futures contracts to choose from. So, for example, if  cotton prices rise, then you can profit handsomely by being  invested in cotton futures contracts, whereas if you were trading  stocks, there are hundreds of companies to choose from whose  fortunes might be affected by the price of cotton but that would  also be affected by other market factors. You might end up buying  stock in a company whose share price falls due to other market  factors, despite a favorable change for the company in terms of  cotton prices.  Finally, in commodity trading, it is just as easy to profit selling short  as buying long. There are no restrictions on short selling as there  are in the stock markets. Having the potential to profit just as easily  from falling prices as from rising prices is a major advantage for  Commodity Trading Secrets – Find Your Market  Here is a little-known secret about consistently successful  commodity traders: They almost always specialize in trading either  a single market, such as cotton, or a small market segment, such as  precious metals or grain futures.  No one has yet offered a completely satisfactory reason for this  fact, but it remains a fact that very few traders seem capable of  trading all commodity markets equally well. There was a fairly well- known trader back in the 1980s who had a nearly flawless trading  record in the cotton market. Copying his cotton trades back then  would have been about the closest thing to just printing piles of  money for yourself. Year in and year out, he called market highs  and lows and trend changes almost as if he’d traveled into the  future and already seen them all unfold.  However, this uncannily brilliant cotton trader had one fatal flaw:  He also loved trading the silver market. Unfortunately for him, he  was just as outrageously bad at trading silver as he was  outrageously good at trading cotton. His weakness was  compounded by the fact that while he typically traded long-term  trends in the cotton market, he day traded the silver market, which  provided him with fresh opportunities to lose money every trading  day of the week.  How did this all play out for him? Well, in one year when he made  over a million dollars trading cotton futures, he ended up filing a  net loss in trading for the year. That’s right – his horrifically bad  

silver trading had more than wiped out every bit of his huge profits  from trading cotton.  (Fortunately, this story does have a happy ending. After two or  three years of stubbornly losing money trading the silver market,  the gentleman did finally accept the fact that, “I just can’t trade  silver,” and very wisely stopped doing so. He continued piling up a  fortune trading cotton over the next several years, and finally  retired from trading with the very concise proclamation that, “I’ve  made enough money and I’ve had enough fun.”)  And so we say: Find your market. It may take some time – and  some losing trades – to do this, but it isn’t really all that difficult to  determine, over a reasonable period of time, what you seem to  have a knack for trading – and what you don’t have a knack for  trading. A simple review of your trades over, say, a six-month  period should pretty clearly show you what markets you’re  frequently doing well in and what markets you aren’t having  success with. As you trade, you’ll probably also develop a feel for  which markets you feel most confident in trading. Trust your  instincts on that score. If profitably trading oil futures comes easily  to you, then just stick with that and don’t go trying to complicate  your life by trying to master trading some market that’s obviously  more difficult for you. Why make your trading life more difficult  than it need be? You’ll likely fare much better by gradually adding  trades in related markets such as natural gas or heating oil.  Large institutional traders such as banks have learned this basic  truth about trading well. At the trading desks in a bank, you’ll rarely,  if ever, find the same person assigned to trading both the gold  market and the soybean market. The common arrangement is to  have commodity trading very specialized, usually with one trader or  one team of traders and analysts assigned to trading just one  segment of the futures markets, such as energy futures or precious  metals futures.  Commodity Trading Secrets – Prices Tend to Trend  The supply and demand quotient for basic raw materials is usually  much less subject to ongoing volatility than is the case with stocks.  Certainly, there are some very volatile trading days, such as those  that occur at the end of major bull or bear trends when there are  long-term market reversals or following a crop report that comes  out unexpectedly good or bad. But generally speaking, there tend  to be sustained periods of time when high demand or short supply  controls a market, driving prices higher, or when oversupply or lack  of demand drives prices lower.  

To confirm this, one need look no further than the past several  years in oil prices. After experiencing a multi-year bull market that  drove oil prices over $100 a barrel, from 2014 onward, oil prices  entered a sustained downtrend, eventually carrying the price back  below $40 a barrel.  Similar action occurred in a protracted bull market that drove grain  prices to record highs in the first decade of this century, followed  by a general decline in prices that has generally been sustained  since 2009. Again, while there are occasional sharp and volatile  movements in commodity prices, commodities typically experience  overall bull or bear trends that last several years.  Therefore, trend-following trading strategies – especially as applied  to long-term time frames such as daily, weekly, or monthly charts –  tend to work well in commodity trading. To demonstrate the  wisdom of trading with the trend, one noted technical analyst  devised a very simple trading strategy and then fine-tuned it by  matching it to the long-term trend according to the daily chart. His  basic trading strategy he devised was as follows: Buy a new 10-day  high and sell short a new 10-day low. It doesn’t get much simpler  That basic strategy worked well enough. It wasn’t a huge  moneymaker, but it was at least profitable overall. However, when  adjusted according to the overall trend as indicated by the daily  chart, the strategy performed markedly better. The adjustment he  made was to only take trading signals that were in the same  direction as the overall long-term trend. In other words, if the daily  chart showed an overall bullish trend, then he would only follow  the trading signals to “buy a new 10-day high,” while ignoring the  trading signals to “sell a new 10-day low”. Conversely, in an overall  bear market, he would only take the sell signals, while ignoring buy  He tested his strategy refinement by trading both strategies – the  basic strategy and the version adjusted to only take trades in the  same direction as the existing trend – using separate trading  accounts, over the same one-year period of time. The fine-tuning of  the trading strategy yielded an impressive improvement in  profitability. The fine-tuned version of the strategy, the one which  only traded with the existing trend, generated approximately 180%  more in profits than did the basic strategy that took both buy and  sell signals regardless of the existing long-term trend.  There’s another good reason to employ a solid, long-term, trend  trading strategy when investing in commodities. While  

commodities do tend to enjoy long-term trends, on a daily trading  basis they tend to be just the opposite – excessively volatile. Day  trading commodity futures – because of the leverage available  which makes even small price fluctuations significant as far as  potential profits or losses on any given day – does indeed offer  tremendous opportunities for profits. However, it’s extremely risky.  Any commodity trader who’s been at the game for a while can tell  you stories of days when the price of a given commodity has gone  from limit up (the maximum daily price advance allowed by the  exchange) to limit down (the maximum daily price decline allowed),  and then back to limit up again, sometimes within just a three or  four hour period. The odds of being able to successfully navigate  your way through price runs like that are slim and none.  Commodity Trading Secrets – Take Advantage of the Nature of  Wise commodity traders know to pay attention to a factor that is  almost unique to commodities as opposed to other investment  vehicles and which tends to significantly drive prices – seasonality.  Nearly all major commodity markets usually tend to follow  established seasonal price patterns. A simple example is heating oil  and natural gas futures. Both of these commodities tend to, year in  and year out, rise into the winter months when demand is highest  and decline into summer as demand falls off.  Certainly, there may be specific economic conditions that disrupt  this general pattern from time to time, but over any 10-year period,  one can reasonably expect such general season price trends to run  true at least seven or eight years out of 10.  There are specific seasonal patterns that traders can watch for, and  take advantage of, in commodity trading. Years ago, famed futures  trader, Jake Bernstein, put together a book on seasonal trends  detailing dozens of seasonal patterns that occur throughout the  year in the various commodity markets, along with the historical  record of what percentage of the time the markets stayed true to  each seasonal pattern. More recently, seasonal trading software  that basically incorporates such data has been created and is  available for traders to use.  Trading seasonal patterns is not a guaranteed win – nothing in  trading ever is – but it definitely offers traders an extra edge.  Seasonal patterns can be used as confirming indicators of an  existing trend, or as cautionary contrary indicators that may make a  trader wisely watchful for an upcoming trend change.  

If nothing else, proper awareness of seasonal tendencies in various  commodity markets can at least help you avoid suffering huge  losses. For example, only the bravest of traders ever holds a large  short sell position in orange juice futures heading into winter, when  just one overnight freeze can send the price of orange juice futures  prices suddenly soaring.  Recent Developments in Commodity Futures Trading  The commodity futures markets have been hurt in recent years by  both regulation and failures of regulation. Government attempts to  regulate commodity trading have, unfortunately, resulted in  misguided legislation that has negatively impacted the markets  while failing to provide much in the way of real protection for  independent traders. For example, the infamous Dodd-Frank Act in  the U.S., enacted in 2014, effectively prohibited banks from  conducting short-term trading of their own accounts in the futures  markets, leading to a huge decline in liquidity in some markets as  many banks exited the commodity trading business.  Not only has legislation resulted in direct negative impacts on the  commodity trading markets, it has failed to effectively address real  issues such as price manipulation. There have been several cases in  recent years of large-scale traders manipulating commodity prices,  but government regulators have either failed to respond, or in  some cases even completely ignored this problem.  Commodity trading has also suffered from the loss of several major  brokerage firms and commodity trading companies. Ironically,  many of these companies went out of business as a result of losing  millions trading their own accounts. Accusations of accounting  fraud have led to the demise of once well-known commodity  brokerage firms such as Refco.  Learning about commodity trading offers traders significant  advantages, such as high amounts of leverage and the opportunity  to ride sustained bull or bear trends. However, commodity trading  is not a charitable organization that hands out suitcases full of  money to anyone who wants some. Just as is the case with any  other investing arena, it takes discipline and practice to become a  highly-skilled and successful commodity trader. One of the major  challenges is learning how to take advantage of the leverage  offered without exposing yourself to excessively high risks and  potentially disastrous losses.  

If you enter the business of commodity trading with proper  caution – realizing that you need to learn how to successfully  navigate a completely different trading arena than that of stocks,  forex, or other investments – then there’s no reason that you can’t  reap the rewards of highly profitable investments, all earned with  the use of a minimum amount of trading capital.  

Trading the Forex Market  Whether you’re an individual trader or a financial or investment  professional, the foreign exchange (forex) market, also known as  the currency or foreign currency market, is where the money is -  literally. Forex trading amounts to approximately $5 trillion (yes,  trillion, not billion) per day. By comparison, the approximately $700  billion a day bond market and $200 billion a day in stock trading  worldwide appear relatively small in size. The total daily value of all  the stock trading in the world equals just about one hour’s worth of  trading in the forex market every day.  Forex Players – Banks, Governments, Companies, and Traders  There are several distinct groups of participants in the forex  market. The largest group of forex traders, in terms of the total  dollar value of trading that they account for, is comprised of  commercial and investment banks. Banks conduct a large amount  of currency trading on behalf of their customers who are involved  in international operations. They also serve as market makers in  forex trading and trade heavily in their own accounts. (If a banker  ever cautions you against forex trading, you might want to ask  them why, if forex is such a bad investment, their bank invests such  huge sums in the forex market. Just a thought. ☺ )  Governments, through their central banks, are also major players  in the forex market. The central bank of a nation will often adopt  large positions of buying or selling its own currency in an attempt  to control the currency’s relative value in order to combat inflation  or to improve the country’s balance of trade. Central bank  interventions in the forex market are similar to policy-driven  interventions in the bond market.  Large companies that operate internationally are also substantially  involved in forex trading, trading up to hundreds of billions of  dollars annually. Corporations use the forex market to hedge their  primary business operations in foreign countries. For example, if a  U.S.-based company is doing a significant amount of business in  Singapore, requiring it to conduct large business transactions in  Singapore dollars, then it might hedge against a decline in the  relative value of the Singapore dollar by selling the currency pair  Sgd/Usd (Singapore dollar vs. US dollar).  Last, but certainly not least, are individual forex traders,  speculators who trade the forex market seeking trading profits.  This group includes a disparate cast of characters,  from professional investment fund managers to individual small  

investors, who come to the market with widely varying levels of  skill, knowledge, and resources.  Learning Forex Trading – Currency Pairs  The forex market trades fluctuations in the exchange rate between  currency pairs, such as the euro and the US dollar, which is stated  as Eur/Usd. In the quoting of exchange rates, the first currency in  the quotation is known as the base currency and the second  currency is the quote currency. The exchange rate for a currency  pair appears as a number like 1.1235. If the pair Eur/Usd is quoted  as 1.1235, that means that it takes $1.12 (and 35/100th) in US  dollars to equal one euro.  The most widely traded currency pairs are, naturally enough, those  involving the currencies that are most widely used worldwide – the  US dollar (Usd), the euro (Eur), and the British pound (Gbp).  Learning Forex Trading – Pips  Generally, the smallest fluctuation in an exchange rate is called a  “pip”. With most currency pairs, which are quoted to four decimal  places, a pip equals 0.0001. The primary exception is Japanese yen  currency pairs that are only quoted to two decimal places so that a  pip equals 0.01. Many brokers now quote to five decimal places,  with the last number signifying a fractional 1/10th of a pip.  The value of a pip depends on both the currency pair being traded  and what lot size is traded. For one standard lot, a pip commonly  equals $10 (US); trading mini-lots, a pip equals $1; and trading  micro-lots, a pip equals 10 cents. The value of a pip varies slightly  depending on the currency pair being traded, but those figures are  roughly accurate for all pairs.  Advantages of Forex Trading – Leverage, Liquidity, and  One of the major attractions of forex trading is the  unparalleled leverage that is available to forex traders. Leverage is  the ability to hold a market position with only a fractional amount  of the market value of the instrument being traded. This fractional  amount is known as “margin”. Leverage is expressed as a ratio that  shows the amount of margin required by a broker to hold a  position in the market. For example, 50:1 leverage means that a  trader only needs to put up 2% of a trade’s total value to initiate a  trade. Some brokers offer up to 1000:1 leverage.  High amounts of leverage mean that forex traders can utilize a very  small amount of investment capital to realize sizeable gains. For  

example, by putting only around $10 in margin money, trading  micro-lots with 500:1 leverage, a trader can realize a profit of  approximately $20 (double his investment) on just a 20-pip change  in the exchange rate. Given that many currency pairs often have a  daily trading range of 100 pips or more, it’s easy to see how traders  can realize substantial gains from very small market movements,  using minimal amounts of trading capital, thanks to leverage.  However, traders have to keep in mind that just as leverage  magnifies profits, it also magnifies losses. So a trader might only  commit $10 of his total trading capital to initiate a trade, but end up  realizing a loss substantially greater than $10.  The extremely high volume of trading that occurs in the forex  market each trading day makes for correspondingly high levels of  liquidity. High liquidity makes for low bid-ask spreads and allows  traders to easily enter and exit trades throughout the trading day.  The bid-ask spread on major currency pairs, such as Gbp/Usd, are  typically much lower than the bid-ask spread on many stocks,  which minimizes transaction costs for traders.  For large institutional traders, such as banks, high liquidity enables  them to trade large positions without causing large fluctuations in  price that typically occur in markets with low liquidity. Again, that  makes for lower total trading costs and thus larger net profits or  smaller net losses.  Higher liquidity is also considered by many traders to make  markets more likely to trade in long-term trends that can more  easily be analyzed with the use of charting and technical analysis.  As previously noted, many of the most widely traded currency pairs  often have a daily trading range of up to 100 pips or more.  Combined with high leverage, this daily volatility makes for  significant opportunities to realize profits simply within the range  of price fluctuations that occur within a normal trading day.  The advantage of volatility is enhanced by the fact in forex trading,  it is just as easy to sell short as it is to buy long. There are no  restrictions on short selling such as those that exist in stock  markets. A wide daily trading range, with equal opportunities to  profit from both buying and selling, makes the forex market very  attractive to speculators.  

Forex Trading Strategies – Fundamental Analysis  As with other investment markets, there are two basic strategic  approaches to forex trading – fundamental and technical.  Fundamental analysis trading is generally more favored by long- term traders, those who buy (or sell) and hold a currency pair for  an extended period of time. Fundamental analysis is based on  economic conditions, both within specific countries and globally.  Throughout most trading days, various economic reports from the  different countries in the world are released. The indications,  positive or negative, coming from such reports are the main drivers  of major changes in exchange rates between currency pairs. If, for  example, several positive reports on the United Kingdom’s  economy are issued within a three-month time frame, that is likely  to increase the value of Gbp against other currencies such as Eur  Among the most significant economic reports issued, those most  likely to impact the currency markets, are gross domestic product  (GDP), the consumer price index (CPI), the producer price index  (PPI), various employment and consumer confidence reports, and  the policy decisions of central banks.  Fundamental analysis may also be based on global economic  trends. For example, if the usage of cotton is rising worldwide, then  countries that are major cotton producers can be expected to  benefit, and the relative value of their currency may be expected to  Interest rates, which are set by a country’s central bank, are a major  factor in determining the relative value of a currency. If investors  can realize significantly higher gains from money held in interest- bearing accounts in the United States than from interest-bearing  accounts in other countries, then that makes the US dollar more  attractive, and therefore likely to increase in value relative to other  Forex Trading Strategies – Technical Analysis  Many forex traders favor technical analysis in determining the  trading positions they adopt. Technical analysis based on charts of  price movements in a market, with the aid of various technical  indicators – is generally favored by speculators and short-term or  intraday traders, although long-term traders may also utilize  technical analysis.  

Technical analysis is simply analysis that is based on past price  movement and market behavior (such as volume or volatility),  Technical indicators include trend indicators such as moving  averages and market strength, and momentum indicators such as  the relative strength indicator (RSI).  A basic technical trading strategy might be something as simple as  buying a currency pair when the price/exchange rate is above a 50- period moving average, and selling the pair when it is below the 50- period moving average. Some technical traders utilize a single  technical indicator for trades, while others apply multiple technical  indicators as trade indicators. For example, the simple technical  trading strategy just outlined, using a moving average, might be  combined with a momentum indicator such as the MACD, with  trades only being initiated when certain price levels and  momentum levels exist.  Technical traders analyze charts of varying time frames based on  the trader’s individual trading time frame preference. Traders who  make very quick, in-and-out of the market trades, may concentrate  their analysis on a 5-minute, or even 1-minute time frame chart.  Traders with a longer term trading time frame are more likely to  apply technical analysis to hourly, 4-hour, or daily charts.  The Forex Market – The Profit Opportunity Market  The forex market is one of the most attractive markets for traders.  Forex trading has exploded in popularity since retail trading by  individual small investors became more readily available around  the turn of the century. The ability to open a trading account with  amounts as small as $50-$100, and the possibility of then turning  such a small amount into millions within just the space of a few  years, is an almost irresistible draw.  However, the lure of “easy money” from forex trading can be  deceptive. The fact is that only a small percentage of traders are  consistent winners in the currency trading market. The keys to  success in forex trading include not just a good, sound trading  strategy, but exceptional trading discipline, patience, and risk  management. A number of super-successful forex traders have  summed up the secret to their success as something like, “Just  avoid taking big losses until you stumble into a huge winner. Most  traders fail because they gamble away all their trading capital and  don’t have any money left to trade with when a ‘million dollar’  trading opportunity finally comes around”.  

Basic Trading Concepts  

Basic Trading Concepts  Random Walk Theory  Before you decide if you want to be a trader, you have to first  decide whether or not it’s even reasonable to believe that trading  can be a profitable endeavor. In order to make that call, you have  to choose which basic market theory you believe.  A “random walk” is a statistical phenomenon where a variable  follows no discernible trend and moves seemingly at random. The  random walk theory as applied to trading, most clearly laid out by  Burton Malkiel, an economics professor at Princeton University,  posits that the price of securities moves randomly (hence the name  of the theory), and that, therefore, any attempt to predict future  price movement, through either fundamental or technical analysis,  is futile. The implication for traders is that it is impossible to  outperform the overall market average other than by sheer chance.  Those who subscribe to the random walk theory recommend using  a “buy and hold” strategy, investing in a selection of stocks that  represent the overall market – for example, an index mutual fund  Basic Assumptions of the Random Walk Theory  follows a random walk.  in the price of one security is independent of price movement  in another security.  One of the main criticisms of the Random Walk Theory is that  the stock market consists of a large number of investors and  the amount of time each investor spends in the market is  different. Thus, it is possible for trends to emerge in the  prices of securities in the short run, and a savvy investor can  outperform the market by strategically buying stocks when  the price is low and selling stocks when the price is high  within a short time span.  Other critics argue that the entire basis of the Random Walk  Theory is flawed and that stocks prices do follow patterns or  trends even over the long run. They argue that because the  To learn more, please check  out our online courses  

price of a security is affected by an extremely large number of  factors, it may be impossible to find out the pattern or trend  followed by the price of that security, but just because a  pattern cannot be found does not mean that a pattern does  A Non-Random Walk  In contrast to the random walk theory is the contention of believers  in technical analysis, those who think that future price movements  can be predicted based on trends, patterns, and historical price  action. The implication arising from this point of view is that traders  with superior market analysis and trading skills can significantly  outperform the overall market average.  Both sides can present evidence to support their position, so it’s up  to each individual to choose what they believe. However, there is  one fact, perhaps a decisive one, which goes against the random  walk theory: the fact that there are some individual traders who  consistently outperform the market average for long periods of  time. According to the random walk theory, a trader should only be  able to outperform the overall market by chance, or luck. This  would allow for there being some traders who, at any given point in  time, would – purely by chance – be outperforming the market  average. But what are the odds then that the same traders would  be “lucky” year in and year out for decades? Yet there are indeed  such traders, people like Paul Tudor Jones, who have managed to  generate above average trading returns on a consistent basis over  a long span of time.  It’s important to note that even the most devout believers in  technical analysis – those who think that future price movements in  the market can be predicted – don’t believe that there’s any way to  infallibly predict future price action. It is more accurate to say that  probable future price movement can be predicted by using  technical analysis, and that by trading based on such probabilities it  is possible to generate higher returns on investment.  So, who do you believe? If you believe in the random walk theory,  then you should just invest in a good ETF or mutual fund designed  to mirror the performance of the S&P 500 Index, and hope for an  overall bull market. If, on the other hand, you believe that price  movements are not random, then you should be polishing your  fundamental or technical analysis skills, confident that doing such  work will pay off with superior profits through actively trading the  

Since you’re reading a book on trading, we’ll assume that you fall  into the latter camp. We wholeheartedly agree with you. So keep  

Fundamental and Technical Analysis  I still like the old joke that goes, “How can I end up with a million  dollars through trading stocks?” – “Start with two million and trade  using technical analysis.”  Let me put a disclaimer on that by saying that I am, in fact,  primarily a technical trader myself and very much an advocate of  technical trading. But it’s still a good joke.  Fundamental analysis and technical analysis are the two broad,  general approaches to market analysis and trading. Each approach  has its advocates and its detractors, and there are hugely  successful – and unsuccessful – traders in both camps.  The Fundamentals of Fundamental Analysis  Fundamental analysis aims at identifying the real, intrinsic value of  a security, based on the belief that the genuine value of something  is what will ultimately determine its price. Fundamental market  analysts attempt to identify a stock or other security’s intrinsic  value by looking at factors such as overall economic conditions,  industry trends, company management, profit and loss data, and  any of a number of financial metrics that are used to determine the  financial health and future prospects for a company. Some of the  most commonly used financial metrics are the price-to-earnings  ratio (P/E), price-to-book ratio (P/B), debt-to-equity ratio(D/E), return  on investment (ROI), and return on assets (ROA).  Fundamental stock traders rely heavily on data such as a  company’s quarterly and annual earnings reports, to see the  earnings-per-share which indicates a company’s profitability as  divided among the total amount of publicly-traded equity in the  company. Additional data for analysis by fundamental traders is  gleaned from the published financial statements of publicly traded  companies, such as a company’s income statement and balance  The exact nature of fundamental analysis varies according to  investments. For example, fundamental traders of the foreign  exchange – forex – market eye data such as gross domestic product  (GDP), manufacturing, import and export data, and the consumer  price index (CPI) in order to assess the overall health of a nation’s  economy. Logically, nations with stronger economies will also likely  have relatively stronger currencies.  Advocates of fundamental analysis point out that it is based on  solid financial data, and therefore likely to be reliable. However, a  

drawback of fundamental analysis is that it requires time- consuming research, and doing things like financial modeling and  company valuations is not an endeavor well-suited to many  The Fundamentals of Technical Analysis  (Get it? – the FUNDAMENTALS of TECHNICAL analysis? See what I  did there? ☺ )  Technical analysts ignore all of the factors considered by  fundamental analysts, and instead concentrate their evaluation of a  security solely on analyzing market price action in order to identify  current and likely future price trends. The basic belief of technical  traders is that all relevant factors of supply and demand are  reflected in the price movement of a security. Technical traders  argue, for example, that there’s no need to engage in the practice  of fundamental traders attempting to assess whether current  economic or marketplace conditions favor increasing demand for a  company’s products – Instead, technical traders would say that if  the company’s stock price is rising steadily, then that shows that  their products are in increasing demand.  The basic tool of technical analysts is the price chart. Technical  analysts look at all manner of data that can be plotted on a price  chart for a security, such as trend lines, trading volume, moving  averages, and support and resistance levels. Technical analysts  don’t bother attempting to identify intrinsic value of s security,  instead using chart analysis to identify price action patterns that  indicate probable future price direction and movement.  Both the strength and the weakness of technical analysis lie in the  fact that there is virtually an endless list of technical indicators to  choose from in analyzing a security. That’s strength because you  have a wealth of price analysis tools at your disposal to help you  determine probable future price movements. It’s a weakness  because of the fact that you can get an endless number of  conflicting indications and trading signals from different technical  indicators. Among the endless choices of indicators to look at –  such as moving averages, candlestick patterns, momentum  indicators, and pivot points - how do you know what to pay  attention to? And the simple answer is: you don’t. Technical traders  select the indicators they use based on any number of reasons, and  then hope that those indicators are the ones giving the most  reliable trading signals.  

So Which One Should You Use – Fundamental or Technical  Use the analytical approach that you’re most comfortable using,  that you have the most confidence in.  Okay, you want something more than that? All right, but in the end  your chosen method of market analysis really is going to come  down to your personal preference and what is best suited to your  personal trading style, financial goals, and risk tolerance.  The practical fact is that while 50 or 100 years ago fundamental  analysis held sway, the arrival of computers has made technical  analysis both easier and more widely used. These days, most of the  largest market players – such as investment banks – base nearly all  of their trading decisions on complex computer algorithms. It’s  estimated that as much as 70-80% of all the trading volume on  exchanges is generated through technical analysis. That doesn’t  mean that fundamental analysis is a useless dinosaur as a trading  approach, but it does mean that even fundamental market analysts  have to pay attention to technical factors that may be driving  market prices.  Many traders use some combination of fundamental and technical  analysis. For example, a stock trader might select companies to  invest in based on fundamental analysis of market sectors and  various companies, but select specific price entry and exit points  based on technical analysis.  

How to Read Stock Charts  If you’re going to actively trade stocks, then you need to know how  to read stock charts. Even traders who primarily use fundamental  analysis to select stocks still often use technical analysis of stock  price movement to determine specific buy, or entry, and sell, or  Stock charts are freely available on websites such as Google  Finance and Yahoo Finance, and stock brokerages always make  stock charts available for their clients. In short, you shouldn’t have  any trouble finding stock charts to examine.  Stock Chart Construction – Lines, Bars, Candlesticks  Stock charts can vary in their construction from bar charts to  candlestick charts to line charts to point and figure charts. Nearly  all stock charts give you the option to switch between the various  types of charts, as well as the ability to overlay various technical  indicators on a chart. You can also vary the time frame shown by a  chart. While daily charts are probably the most commonly used,  intraday, weekly, monthly, year-to-date (YTD), 5-year, 10-year, and  complete historical lifetime of a stock are also available.  There are relative advantages and disadvantages to using different  chart construction styles and to using different time frames for  analysis. What style and time frame will work best for you as an  individual analyst or trader is something that you can only discover  through actually doing stock chart analysis. You can glean valuable  indications of probable stock price movement from stock chart  analysis. You should choose the chart style that makes it easiest for  you to read and analyze the chart, and trade profitably.  Looking at a Stock Chart  Below is a year-to-date daily chart of Apple Inc. (AAPL), courtesy of  stockcharts.com. This chart is a candlestick chart, with white  candles showing up days for the stock and red candles showing  down days. In addition, this chart has several technical indicators  added: a 50-period moving average and a 200-period moving  average, appearing as blue and red lines on the chart; the relative  strength indicator (RSI) which appears in a separate window above  the main chart window; the moving average convergence  divergence indicator (MACD) which appears in a separate window  below the chart.  

Along the bottom of the main chart window, the daily trading  volume is shown. Note the large spike in volume that occurred on  February 1st, when the stock gapped higher and began a strong  uptrend which lasted until early June. Also note the high amount of  selling volume (indicated by red volume bars which indicate days  with a greater amount of selling volume than buying volume) that  occurs when the stock moves sharply downward around June 12th.  The Importance of Volume  Volume appears on nearly every stock chart that you’ll find. That’s  because trading volume is considered a critical technical indicator  by nearly every stock trader. On the chart above, in addition to  showing the total level of trading volume for each day, days with  greater buying volume are indicated with blue bars and days with  greater selling volume are indicated with red bars.  The reason that volume is considered to be a very important  technical indicator is a simple one. The vast majority of stock  

market buying and selling is done by large institutional traders,  such as investment banks, and by fund managers, such as mutual  fund or exchange-traded fund (ETF) managers. When those  investors make major purchases or sales of a stock, it creates high  trading volume, and it is that kind of major buying and selling by  large investors that typically move a stock higher or lower.  Therefore, individual or other institutional traders watch volume  figures for indications of major buying or selling activity by large  institutions. This information can be used either to forecast a  future price trend for the stock or to identify key price support and  resistance levels.  In fact, many individual traders determine their buying and selling  decisions almost solely based on following the identified actions of  major institutional traders. They buy stocks when volume and price  movement indicate that major institutions are buying, and sell or  avoid buying stocks when there are indications of major  institutional selling. Such a strategy works best when applied to  major stocks that are generally heavily traded. It will likely be less  effective when applied to stocks of small companies that are not  yet on the radar screens of large institutional investors and that  have relatively small trading volumes even on days when the stock  is more heavily traded than usual.  Basic Volume Patterns  There are four basic volume patterns that traders typically watch as  High volume trading on Up Days – This is a  bullish indication that a stock’s price will continue to rise  Low volume trading on Down Days – This is also a bullish  indication since it indicates that on days when the stock’s  price falls back a bit not many investors are involved in  the trading. Therefore, such down days occurring in an  overall bull market are commonly interpreted as  temporary retracements or corrections rather than as  significant indicators of future price movement.  High Volume Trading on Down Days – This is considered a  bearish indicator for a stock, as it shows that major  institutional traders are aggressively selling the stock.  Low Volume Trading on Up Days – This is another bearish  indicator, although not as strong as high volume trading  on down days. The low volume tends to peg the trading  

action on such days as less significant and usually  evidence of just a short-term counter-trend retracement  upward in an overall, long-term bearish trend.  Using Technical Indicators  In analyzing stock charts for stock market investing, traders use a  variety of technical indicators to help them more precisely  determine probable price movement, identify trends, and  anticipate market reversals from bullish trends to bearish trends  and vice-versa.  One of the most commonly used technical indicators is a moving  average. The moving averages that are most frequently applied to  daily stock charts are the 20-day, 50-day, and 200-day moving  average. Generally speaking, as long as a shorter period moving  average is above a longer period moving average, a stock is  considered to be in an overall uptrend. Conversely, if shorter term  moving averages are below longer term moving averages, then that  indicates an overall downtrend.  Another commonly used indicator is the trendline. A trendline is  drawn on a chart connecting the lowest price points in an uptrend  or the highest price points in a downtrend. Price breaking  substantially below the trendline in an uptrend indicates a possible  market reversal to the downside, while price moving substantially  above a downtrend line indicates a possible reversal to the upside.  The Importance of the 200-Day Moving Average  The 200-day moving average is considered by most analysts as a  critical indicator on a stock chart. Traders who are bullish on a  stock want to see the stock’s price remain above the 200-day  moving average. Bearish traders who are selling short a stock want  to see the stock price stay below the 200-day moving average. If a  stock’s price crosses from below the 200-day moving average to  above it, this is usually interpreted as a bullish market reversal. A  downside cross of price from above the 200-day moving average is  interpreted as a bearish indication for the stock.  The interplay between the 50-day and 200-day moving averages is  also considered as a strong indicator for future price movement.  When the 50-day moving average crosses from below to above the  200-day moving average this event is referred to by technical  analysts as a “golden cross”. A golden cross is basically an  indication that the stock is “gold”, set for substantially higher prices.  On the flip side, if the 50-day moving average crosses from above  to below the 200-day moving average, this is referred to by analysts  

as a “death cross”. You can probably figure out on your own that a  “death cross” isn’t considered to bode well for a stock’s future price  Trend and Momentum Indicators  There is virtually an endless list of technical indicators for traders to  choose from in analyzing a chart. Experiment with various  indicators to discover the ones that work best for your particular  style of trading and as applied to the specific stocks that you trade.  You’ll likely find that some indicators work very well for you in  forecasting price movement for some stocks but not for others.  Technical analysts often use indicators of different types in  conjunction with each other. Technical indicators are classified into  two basic types: trend indicators such as moving averages, and  momentum indicators such as the MACD or the average directional  index (ADX). Trend indicators are used to identify the overall  direction of a stock’s price, up or down, while momentum  indicators gauge the strength of price movement.  Analyzing Trends  When reviewing a stock chart, in addition to determining the stock’s  overall trend, up or down, it’s also helpful to look to identify aspects  of a trend such as the following:  How long has a trend been in place? Stocks do not stay in  uptrends or downtrends indefinitely. Eventually, there are  always trend changes. If a trend has continued for a long  period of time without any significant corrective  retracement moves in the opposite direction, you want to  be especially alert for signs of an impending market  How does a stock tend to trade? Some stocks move in  relatively slow, well-defined trends. Other stocks tend to  experience more volatility on a regular basis, with price  making sharp moves up or down even in the midst of a  general long-term trend. If you are trading a stock that  typically evidences high volatility, then you know not to  place too much importance on the trading action of any  Are there signs of a possible trend reversal? Careful  analysis of stock price movement often reveals signs of  potential trend reversals. Momentum indicators often  indicate a trend running out of steam before the price of  

a stock actually peaks, giving alert traders the opportunity  to get out of a stock at a good price before it reverses to  the downside. Various candlestick or other chart patterns  are also often used to identify major market reversals.  Identifying Support and Resistance Levels  Stock charts can be particularly helpful in identifying support and  resistance levels for stocks. Support levels are price levels where  previously fresh buying has come in to support a stock’s price and  turn it back to the upside. Conversely, resistance levels represent  prices at which a stock has shown a tendency to fail in attempting  to move higher, turning back to the downside.  Identifying support and resistance levels can be especially helpful  in trading a stock that tends to trade within an established trading  range over a long period of time. Some stock traders, having  identified such a stock, will look to buy the stock at support levels  and sell it at resistance levels over and over again, making more  and more money as the stock traverses the same ground multiple  For stocks that have well-identified support and resistance levels,  price breakouts beyond either of those levels can be important  indicators of future price movement. For example, if a stock has  previously failed to break above $50 a share, but then finally does  so, this may be a sign that the stock will move from there to a  substantially higher price level.  The chart of General Electric (GE) below shows that the stock  traded in a tight range between $29 and $30 a share for several  months, but once the stock price broke below the $29 support  level, it continued to fall substantially lower.  

Conclusion – Using Stock Chart Analysis  Stock chart analysis is not infallible, not even in the hands of the  most expert technical analyst. If it were, every stock investor would  be a multi-millionaire. However, learning to read a stock chart will  definitely help turn the odds of being a successful stock market  trader in your favor.  Stock chart analysis is a skill, and like any other skill, one only  becomes an expert at it through practice. The good news is that  virtually anyone willing to work diligently at analyzing stock charts  can become, if not an outright expert, at least pretty good at it –  good enough to improve their overall profitability in stock market  trading. Therefore, it’s in your best interest as a trader to begin, or  continue, your education in stock chart analysis.  

Stock Investing – Value Investing  Since the publication of “The Intelligent Investor” by Benjamin  Graham, what is commonly known as “value investing” has become  one of the most widely respected and widely followed methods  of stock-picking. Famed investor Warren Buffet, while actually  employing a mix of growth investing and value investing principles,  has publicly credited much of his unparalleled success in the  investment world to following Graham’s basic advice in evaluating  and selecting stocks for his portfolio.  However, as the markets have changed over more than half a  century, so too has value investing. Over the years, Graham’s  original value investing strategy has been adapted, adjusted, and  augmented in a variety of ways by investors and market analysts  aiming to improve on how well a value investing approach  performs for investors in the 21st century. Even Graham himself  devised additional metrics and formulations aimed at more  accurately determining the true value of a stock.  Keep in mind that whenever you evaluate a company and its stock  price, you need to interpret the numbers in light of things such as  specific industry and general economic conditions.  In addition, good stock analysis requires that you always review  past and current financial metrics with an eye to the future,  projecting how well you think a company will fare moving forward,  given its current finances, assets, liabilities, marketplace position,  and plans for expansion.  It’s also important to avoid getting lost in a purely numerical  analysis to the point where you lose sight of the forest for the trees,  so to speak. Non-numerical “value” factors that investors should  not overlook include things such as how effectively a company’s  management is achieving goals and moving the company forward  in a way that is consistent with pursuing its corporate mission  statement. A company may be showing impressive profitability for  the moment, but in today’s excessively competitive marketplace a  company that is not carefully mapping, planning out, reviewing  (and when needed, re-routing) its progress will nearly always  eventually be eclipsed by a company that is doing those things.  Value Investing vs Growth Investing  Before we move ahead to review traditional value investing and  then look at some of the newer, alternative value investing  strategies, it’s important to note that “value investing” and “growth  

investing” are not two contradictory or mutually exclusive  approaches to picking stocks. The basic idea of value investing –  selecting currently undervalued stocks that you expect to increase  in value in the future – obviously involves assessing probable future  The differences between value investing and growth investing  strategies tend to be more just a matter of emphasizing different  financial metrics (and to some extent a difference in risk tolerance,  with growth investors typically willing to accept higher levels of  risk). Ultimately, value investing, growth investing, or any other  basic stock evaluation approach has the same end goal: choosing  stocks that will provide an investor with the best possible return on  The Basics of Traditional Value Investing  In “The Intelligent Investor”, Ben Graham proposed and explained a  method for screening stocks that he developed to assist even the  most inexperienced investors with their stock portfolio selections.  In fact, that’s one of the major appeals of Graham’s value investing  approach – the fact that it’s not overly intricate or complicated, and  can, therefore, be easily utilized by the average investor.  Graham’s value investing strategy involves some basic concepts  that underlie or form the foundation or basis for the strategy. For  Graham, a key concept was that of intrinsic value – specifically, the  intrinsic value of a company or its stock. The essence of value  investing is using a stock analysis method to determine the stock’s  genuine value, with an eye toward buying stocks whose current  share price is below the stock’s genuine value or worth.  Value investors are essentially applying the same logic as careful  shoppers in looking to identify stocks that are “a good buy,” that  are selling for a price lower than the real value they represent. A  value investor searches out and snaps up what they determine are  undervalued stocks, with the belief that the market will eventually  “correct” the share price to a higher level that more accurately  represents the stock’s true value.  Graham’s Value Investing Approach  Graham’s approach to value investing was geared toward  developing a simple process for stock screening that the average  investor could easily utilize. Overall, he did manage to keep things  fairly simple, but on the other hand, classic value investing is a little  more involved than just the often-recited refrain of, “Buy stocks  with a price-to-book (P/B) ratio of less than 1.0.”  

The P/B ratio guideline for identifying undervalued stocks is, in fact,  only one of a number of criteria which Graham used to help him  identify undervalued stocks. There’s some argument among value  investing aficionados as to whether one is supposed to use a 10- point criteria checklist that Graham created, a longer 17-point  checklist, a distillation of either of the criteria lists that usually  appears in the form of a four- or five-point checklist, or one or the  other of a couple of single criterion stock selection methods that  Graham also advocated.  In an attempt to avoid as much confusion as possible, we’re going  to present here the main criteria that Graham himself considered  most important in identifying good value stocks, i.e., those with an  intrinsic value greater than their current market price.  ratio is important because it represents a comparison of the  share price to a company’s assets. One major limitation of the  P/B ratio is that it functions best when used to assess capital- intensive companies, but is less effective when applied to  non-capital-intensive firms.  Note: Rather than looking for an absolute P/B ratio lower than 1.0,  investors may just look for companies with a P/B ratio that is  relatively lower than the average P/B ratio of similar companies in  the same industry or market sector.  the stock’s highest P/E over the previous five years.  tangible per share book value, AND less than 67% of the  company’s net current asset value (NCAV).  Note: The share-price-to-NCAV criterion is sometimes used as a  standalone tool for identifying undervalued stocks. Graham  considered a company’s NCAV to be one of the most accurate  representations of a company’s true intrinsic value.  Note: A related, or perhaps an alternative, financial metric to this is  examining the basic debt ratio – the current ratio – which should be  greater than 2.0.  

and total current liabilities and long-term debt should not be  greater than the firm’s total stockholder equity.  Investors can experiment with using Graham’s various criteria and  determine for themselves which of the valuation metrics or  guidelines they consider to be most essential and most reliable as  indicators. There are some investors who still use only an  examination of a stock’s P/B ratio to determine whether or not a  stock is undervalued. Others rely heavily, if not exclusively, on  comparing current share price to the company’s NCAV. More  cautious, conservative investors may only buy stocks that pass  every one of Graham’s suggested screening tests.  We think you’ll find that incorporating at least some of Graham’s  value investing principles into your portfolio selection process will  improve your overall stock trading performance.  Alternative Methods of Determining Value  Value investors continue to give Graham and his value investing  metrics attention. However, the development of new angles from  which to calculate and assess value means that alternative  methods for identifying underpriced stocks have arisen as well.  One increasing popular value metric is the Discounted Cash Flow  (DCF) formula.  DCF and Reverse DCF Valuation  Many accountants and other financial professionals have become  ardent fans of DCF analysis. DCF is one of the few financial metrics  that take into account the time value of money – the notion that  money available now is more valuable than the same amount of  money available at some point in the future because whatever  money is available now can be invested and thus used to generate  DCF analysis uses future free cash flow (FCF) projections and  discount rates that are calculated using the Weighted Average Cost  of Capital (WACC) to estimate the present value of a company, with  the underlying idea being that its intrinsic value is largely  dependent on the company’s ability to generate cash flow.  The essential calculation of a DCF analysis is as follows:  Fair Value = The company’s enterprise value – the company’s debt  

(Enterprise value is an alternative metric to market capitalization.  It represents market capitalization + debt + preferred shares – total  cash, including cash equivalents).  If the DCF analysis of a company renders a per share value higher  than the current market share price, then the stock is considered  DCF analysis is particularly well-suited for evaluating companies  that have stable, relatively predictable cash flows since the primary  weakness of DCF analysis is that it depends on accurate estimates  of future cash flows.  Some analysts prefer to use reverse DCF analysis in order to  overcome the uncertainty of future cash flow projections. Reverse  DCF analysis starts with a known quantity – the current share price  – and then calculates the cash flows that would be required to  generate that current valuation. Once the required cash flow is  determined, then evaluating the company’s stock as undervalued  or overvalued is as simple as making a judgment about how  reasonable (or unreasonable) it is to expect the company to be able  to generate the required amount of cash flows necessary to sustain  the current share price.  An undervalued stock is identified when an analyst determines that  a company can easily generate and sustain more than enough cash  flow to justify the current share price.  Katsenelson’s Absolute P/E Model  Katsenelson’s model, developed by Vitally Katsenelson, is another  alternative value investing analysis tool that is considered  particularly ideal for evaluating companies that have strong,  positive, established earnings scores. The Katsenelson model  focuses on providing investors with a more reliable P/E ratio,  known as “absolute P/E.”  The model adjusts the traditional P/E ratio in accord with several  variables, such as earnings growth, dividend yield, and earnings  predictability. The formula is as follows:  Absolute PE = (Earnings Growth Points + Dividend Points) x [1  + (1 – Business Risk)] x [1 + (1 – Financial Risk)] x [1 + (1 –  Earnings Visibility)]  Earnings growth points are determined by starting with a no- growth P/E value of 8, and then adding .65 points for every 100  basis points the projected growth rate increases until you reach  

16%. Above 16%, .5 points are added for every 100 basis points in  projected growth.  The absolute P/E number produced is then compared to the  traditional P/E number. If the absolute P/E number is higher than  the standard P/E ratio, then that indicates the stock is undervalued.  Obviously, the larger the discrepancy between the absolute P/E and  the standard P/E, the better a bargain the stock is. For example, if a  stock’s absolute P/E is 20 while the standard P/E ratio is only 11,  then the true intrinsic value of the stock is likely much higher than  the current share price, as the absolute P/E number indicates that  investors are probably willing to pay a lot more for the company’s  current earnings.  The Ben Graham Number  You don’t necessarily have to look away from Ben Graham to find  an alternative value investing metric. Graham himself created an  alternate value assessment formula that investors may choose to  employ – the Ben Graham Number.  The formula for calculating the Ben Graham Number is as follows:  Ben Graham Number = the square root of [22.5 x (Earnings per  share (EPS)) x (Book value per share)]  For example, the Ben Graham Number for a stock with an EPS of  $1.50 and a book value of $10 per share calculates out to $18.37.  Graham generally felt that a company’s P/E ratio shouldn’t be  higher than 15 and that its price-to-book (P/B) ratio shouldn’t  exceed 1.5. That’s where the 22.5 in the formula is derived from (15  x 1.5 = 22.5). However, with the valuation levels that are  commonplace these days, the maximum allowable P/E might be  shifted to around 25 and acceptable P/B ratio to 3.0.  Once you’ve calculated a stock’s Ben Graham Number – which is  designed to represent the actual per-share intrinsic value of the  company – you then compare it to the stock’s current share price.  If the current share price is lower than the Ben Graham  Number, this indicates the stock is undervalued and may be  considered as a buy.  If the current share price is higher than the Ben Graham  Number, then the stock appears overvalued and is not a  promising buy candidate.  

The Bottom Line  Value investors are always looking to buy undervalued stocks  selling at a discount to intrinsic value in order to make sizeable  profits with minimal risk. There are a variety of tools and  approaches that traders can use to try to determine the true value  of a stock and whether or not it’s a good fit for their investment  The best stock evaluation process is never just a mathematical  formula that one plugs numbers into and then in return receives a  solid, guaranteed determination of a particular stock as a “good” or  “bad” investment. While there are important stock valuation  formulas and financial metrics to consider, the process of  evaluating a stock is ultimately part art and part science – and  partly a skill that can only be mastered with time and practice.  

Stock Investing – Growth Investing  Traders can take advantage of growth investing strategies in order  to more precisely hone in on stocks or other investments offering  above-average profit potential. When it comes to trading stocks,  there are always a variety of approaches that can be taken. The  goal, however, is generally always the same, regardless of the  approach – grow your investments and increase your profits.  Growth investors are continually on the hunt for individual stocks  or stock-related investments – such as mutual funds or ETFs – that  are poised to grow and offer the potential for above average  returns on investment. The trades you make should, of course,  always fall in line with your short-term and long-term financial  goals, risk tolerance, and a number of other factors. Still, there are  basic techniques, principles, and strategies that growth investors  follow that suit virtually any individual investing plan.  In this guide, we want to explain growth investing as a strategy  itself, and then break down more specific approaches and  strategies that growth investors can employ.  The Basics of Growth Investing  Growth investing is essentially the process of investing in  companies, industries, or sectors that are currently growing and  are expected to continue growing rapidly over a substantial period  of time. In the investment world, growth investing is typically  looked at as more of an offensive rather than a defensive investing  strategy. This simply means that growth investing is a more active  attempt to generate the highest possible returns on the capital that  you invest. Defensive investing, in contrast, tends more toward  investments that generate passive income and work to protect the  capital you’ve already earned – such as bonds or blue-chip stocks  that offer steady dividends.  Investing in Hot Sectors  One approach growth investors can take is to invest in  stocks, mutual funds, or ETFs in specific sectors and industries. The  success of businesses in various sectors changes over time.  However, it’s fairly easy to identify sectors that are “hot” in the  sense of producing above average returns as compared to most  publicly traded companies.  For example, two sectors that have been particularly hot for a  couple of decades or more are healthcare and technology.  Companies that deal with technology, technological advances, or  

are constantly putting out new hardware, software, and devices are  usually good picks for growth investors. The same is true for  companies in the healthcare sector. Think about it logically:  Everyone, at some point, needs to care for their health and there  are companies that are constantly developing new medications,  therapies, treatments, and places to go to access superior health  care. The healthcare sector is likely to continue enjoying rapid  growth as it serves an aging baby-boomer generation. In fact, these  two sectors are related, as many recent technology developments  have actually been advances in healthcare technology.  Growth investors can simplify sector investing by taking advantage  of investment vehicles such as mutual funds and ETFs that contain  a basket of stocks linked to specific sectors. As noted previously,  ETFs are an increasingly popular investment option due to their  superior liquidity and lower trading costs as compared to mutual  Understanding Earnings  For growth investors in stocks, understanding a company’s net  earnings is essential. This doesn’t mean simply knowing their  current earnings, but also considering their historical earnings as  well, since this enables you to evaluate current earnings relative to  a company’s past performance. Also, reviewing a company’s  earnings history provides a clearer indication of the probability of  the company generating higher future earnings.  A high earnings performance in a given quarter or year may  represent a one-time anomaly in a company’s performance, a  continuing trend, or a certain point in an earnings cycle that the  company continues to repeat over time.  Even companies with relatively low, or sometimes even negative,  earnings may still be a good pick for a growth investor. Remember  that earnings are what’s left over after subtracting all production,  marketing, operating, labor, and tax costs from a company’s gross  revenue. In many instances, smaller companies attempt to make a  breakthrough by funneling more capital toward growing their  business, which may negatively impact their earnings in the short  run, but in the long run generate higher returns and greater profits  for investors. In such a situation, smart traders consider other  factors, such as the quality of a company’s management, to  ascertain clues to a company’s true growth potential.  

Growth Investing through Value Investing  Growth investors are effectively value investors sometimes, in that  they seek out companies whose stock may be currently  undervalued due to reasons that may be as simple as the fact that  the company is relatively new and has not yet caught the attention  of many investment analysts or fund managers.  The goal for such investors is to grab up shares at a low price of a  company that is well-positioned to enjoy a sizeable and continued  surge in growth. There are a number of possible ways to approach  identifying such companies, one of which we’ve already touched on  – looking at companies in hot sectors. Investors who can identify a  new, well-managed and well-funded company that is part of a hot  sector can often reap substantial rewards. Another possible  approach is to examine companies that are on the downslope, such  as those that have gone through bankruptcy or reorganization, but  that are likely to survive and recover.  Using the Price-to-Earnings Ratio  The price/earnings (P/E) ratio is a financial metric that growth  investors often favor to help them in choosing stocks. Generally  speaking, a higher P/E ratio indicates that investors are willing to  take greater risk on buying a stock because of its projected  earnings and growth rate.  The P/E ratio is particularly useful for growth investors who are  trying to compare companies that operate in the same industry. In  established industries and sectors, there tends to be average P/E  ratios for that particular industry or sector. Knowing such industry  or sector averages makes a company’s P/E ratio a much more  useful number than simply looking at it in comparison to the  market as a whole.  Looking at a company’s P/E ratio remains a useful analytical tool for  growth investors, but adding consideration of other fundamental  financial metrics can help to fine tune your stock picks.  Using the Price-to-Book Ratio  The price-to-book ratio – or P/B ratio – is often considered more the  basic analytical metric of value investors as opposed to growth  investors. However, the fact is that the P/B ratio can also be utilized  as an effective tool in identifying stocks with high growth potential.  The P/B ratio is calculated by dividing a stock’s per share price by  the book value per share. In order to determine the book value of a  stock, preferred stock that has been issued must be subtracted  

from the total stockholder equity. The figure calculated from this  takeaway must then be divided by all common shares still  outstanding. The final number is the company’s book value per  share of common stock. It is often helpful for investors, especially  growth investors, to compare a company’s book value to its market  value. This comparison can provide a good indication of whether a  stock is undervalued or overvalued. Companies with high growth  potential are frequently undervalued due to heftier debt loads and  capital expenditures.  High-Risk Growth Investments  Growth investing may also extend into investments beyond  traditional stock market investing.  Investing in high-risk growth investments – also referred to as  speculative investments – is an approach that is not suited for  individuals with a low threshold for risk. This is a strategy best  suited for individuals looking for maximum profits within a  relatively short time frame and who have sufficient investment  capital to sustain them during periods of losses.  High-risk investments include such things as futures, options  contracts, foreign currency exchange (forex), penny stocks, and  speculative real estate, such as land that hasn’t been developed.  These investments involve greater risk in that they offer no  guaranteed return and their value tends to change quickly (in other  words, they’re subject to greater volatility). However, the draw for  many investors is that when such investments do pay off, they  often pay off big.  If you’re considering any of these investments, remember that  research is key to success. More so than the average stock or bond  investor, you have to know the market you’re investing in very well.  Because success is based largely on speculation, we strongly  recommend that only experienced investors roll the dice on  investment assets such as these.  A Concluding Note  The reality is that there is a multitude of ways that growth investors  can find investments to complement their existing portfolio. In the  end, it is always up to each individual to choose the methods that  work best for them personally, but it is also always helpful to be  aware of different approaches to identifying investments with the  greatest potential for providing future profits.  

Technical Indicators  and Trading Strategies  

Technical Indicators and  Trading Strategies  Technical Analysis – A Basic Guide  Technical analysis is a tool, or method, used to predict the probable  future price movement of a security – such as  a stock or cryptocurrency pair – based on market data.  The theory behind the validity of technical analysis is the notion  that the collective actions – buying and selling – of all the  participants in the market accurately reflect all relevant information  pertaining to a traded security, and therefore, continually assign a  fair market value to the security through price action.  Technical traders believe that current or past price action in the  market is the most reliable indicator of future price action.  Charting on Different Time Frames  Technical traders analyze price charts to attempt to predict price  movement. The two primary variables for technical analysis are the  time frames considered and the particular technical indicators that  a trader chooses to utilize.  The time frames shown on charts range from one-minute to  monthly, or even yearly, time spans. Popular time frames that  technical analysts frequently examine include:  5-minute chart  15-minute chart  The time frame a trader selects to study is typically determined by  that individual trader’s personal trading style. Intraday traders,  traders who open and close trading positions within a single  trading day, favor analyzing price movement on shorter time frame  charts, such as the 5-minute or 15-minute charts. Long-term  To learn more, please check  out our online courses  

traders who hold market positions overnight and for long periods  of time are more inclined to analyze markets using hourly, 4-hour,  daily, or even weekly charts.  Price movement that occurs within a 15-minute time span may be  very significant for a trader who is looking for an opportunity to  realize a profit from price changes occurring during one trading  day. However, that same price movement viewed on a daily or  weekly chart may not be particularly significant or indicative for  long-term trading purposes.  It’s simple to illustrate this by viewing the same price action on  different time frame charts. The following daily chart for silver  shows price trading within the same range, from roughly $16 to  $18.50, that it’s been in for the past several months. A long-term  silver investor might be inclined to look to buy silver based on the  fact that the price is fairly near the low of that range.  

However, the same price action viewed on an hourly chart (below)  shows a steady downtrend that has accelerated somewhat just  within the past several hours. A silver investor interested only in  making an intra-day trade would likely shy away from buying the  precious metal based on the hourly chart price action.  Candlestick Charting  Candlestick charting is the most commonly used method of  showing price movement on a chart. A candlestick is formed from  the price action during a single time period for any time frame  chart. Each candlestick on an hourly chart shows the price action  for one hour, while each candlestick on a 4-hour chart shows the  price action during each 4-hour time period.  Candlesticks are “drawn” / formed as follows: The highest point of a  candlestick shows the highest price a security traded at during that  time period, and the lowest point of the candlestick indicates the  

lowest price during that time. The “body” of a candlestick (the  respective red or blue “blocks”, or thicker parts, of each candlestick  as shown in the charts above) indicates the opening and closing  prices for the time period. If a blue candlestick body is formed, this  indicates that the closing price (top of the candlestick body) was  higher than the opening price (bottom of the candlestick body);  conversely, if a red candlestick body is formed, then the opening  price was higher than the closing price. The lines that extend above  or below the candlestick body are referred to as wicks, tails, or  Candlestick colors are arbitrary choices. Some traders use white  and black candlestick bodies; other traders may choose to use  green and red, or blue and yellow. Whatever colors are chosen,  they provide an easy way to determine at a glance whether price  moved up or down during a given time period. Technical analysis  using a candlestick charts is often easier than using a standard bar  chart, as the analyst receives clearer visual cues to price action  during any given time period.  Candlestick Patterns – Dojis  Technical analysis using candlestick patterns, which are formed by  either a single candlestick or by a succession of two or three  candlesticks, are some of the most widely used technical indicators  for identifying potential market reversals or trend changes.  Doji candlesticks, for example, indicate indecision in a market that  may be a signal for an impending trend change or market reversal.  The singular characteristic of a doji candlestick is that the opening  and closing prices are the same, so that the candlestick body is a  flat horizontal line. The longer the upper and/or lower shadows, or  tails, on a doji candlestick, the stronger the indication of market  indecision and potential reversal is considered to be.  There are several variations of doji candlesticks, each with their  own distinctive name, as shown in the illustrations below.  

The typical doji is the long-legged doji, where price extends about  equally in each direction, opening and closing in the middle of the  price range for the time period. As the illustration notes, this  indicates indecision in the market. When a doji like this appears at  the end of an extended uptrend or downtrend in a market, it is  commonly interpreted as signaling a possible market reversal, a  trend change to the opposite direction.  The dragonfly doji, when appearing after a prolonged downtrend,  signals a possible upcoming reversal to the upside. Examination of  the price action indicated by the dragonfly doji explains its logical  interpretation. The dragonfly shows sellers pushing price  substantially lower (the long lower tail), but at the end of the period  price recovers to close at its highest point. The candlestick  essentially indicates a rejection of the extended push to the  The gravestone doji’s name clearly hints that it represents bad  news for buyers. The opposite of the dragonfly formation, the  gravestone doji indicates a strong rejection of an attempt to push  market prices higher, and thereby suggests a potential downside  reversal may follow.  The extremely rare four price doji, where the market opens, closes,  and in-between conducts all buying and selling at the exact same  price throughout the time period, is the epitome of indecision, a  market that shows no strong inclination to go anywhere in  There are dozens of different candlestick formations, along with  their respective variations. Probably the most complete resource  for identifying and utilizing candlestick patterns is Thomas  Bulkowski’s pattern site, which thoroughly explains each  

candlestick pattern and provides statistics on how often each  pattern has historically given a reliable trading signal. It’s certainly  helpful to know what a candlestick pattern indicates – but it’s even  more helpful to know if that indication has proven to be accurate  90% of the time.  Technical Indicators – Moving Averages  In addition to studying candlestick formations, technical traders can  draw from a virtually endless supply of technical indicators to assist  them in making trading decisions.  Moving averages are probably the single most widely-used  technical indicator. Many trading strategies utilize one or more  moving averages. A simple moving average trading strategy might  be something like, “Buy as long as price remains above the 50- period exponential moving average (EMA); Sell as long as price  remains below the 50 EMA”.  Moving average crossovers are another frequently employed  technical indicator. A crossover trading strategy might be to buy  when the 10-period moving average crosses above the 50-period  moving average.  The higher a moving average number is, the more significant price  movement in relation to it is considered. For example, price  crossing above or below a 100- or 200-period moving average is  usually considered much more significant than price moving above  or below a 5-period moving average.  Technical Indicators – Pivots and Fibonacci Numbers  Daily pivot point indicators, which usually also identify several  support and resistance levels in addition to the pivot point, are  used by many traders to identify price levels for entering or closing  out trades. Pivot point levels often mark where trading is contained  within a range. If trading soars (or plummets) through the daily  pivot and all the associated support or resistance levels, this is  interpreted by many traders as ‘breakout” trading that will shift  market prices substantially higher or lower, in the direction of the  Daily pivot points and their corresponding support and resistance  levels are calculated using the previous trading day’s high, low,  opening and closing prices. I’d show you the calculation, but there’s  really no need, as pivot point levels are widely published each  trading day and there are pivot point indicators freely available that  

you can just load on a chart that do the calculations for you and  reveal pivot levels.  Fibonacci Retracements  Fibonacci levels are another popular technical analysis tool.  Fibonacci was a 12th-century mathematician who developed a  series of ratios that is very popular with technical traders. Fibonacci  ratios, or levels, are commonly used to pinpoint trading  opportunities and profit targets that arise during sustained trends.  The primary Fibonacci ratios are 0.24, 0.38, 0.62, and 0.76. These  are often expressed as percentages – 23%, 38%, etc. Note that  Fibonacci ratios complement other Fibonacci ratios: 24% is the  opposite, or remainder, of 76%, and 38% is the opposite, or  remainder, of 62%.  As with pivot point levels, there are numerous freely available  technical indicators that will automatically calculate and load  Fibonacci levels onto a chart.  Fibonacci retracements are the most often used Fibonacci  indicator. After a security has been in a sustained uptrend or  downtrend for some time, there is frequently a corrective  retracement in the opposite direction before price resumes the  overall long-term trend. Fibonacci retracements are used to identify  good, low-risk trade entry points during such a retracement.  For example, assume that the price of stock “A” has climbed  steadily from $10 to $40. Then the stock price begins to fall back a  bit. Many investors will look for a good entry level to buy shares  during such a price retracement.  Fibonacci numbers suggest that price retracements will likely  extend a distance equal to 24%, 38%, 62%, or 76% of the uptrend  move from $10 to $40. Investors watch these levels for indications  that the market is finding support from where price will begin rising  again. For example, if you were hoping for a chance to buy the  stock after approximately a 38% retracement in price, you might  enter an order to buy around $30-$31. (The move from $10 to $40  = $30; 38% of $30 is $9; $40 – $9 = $31)  Fibonacci Extensions  Continuing with the above example – So now you’ve bought the  stock at $31 and you’re trying to determine a profit target to sell at.  For that, you can look to Fibonacci extensions, which indicate how  much higher price may extend when the overall uptrend resumes.  The Fibonacci extension levels are pegged at prices that represent  

126%, 138%, 162%, and 176% of the original uptrend move,  calculated from the low of the retracement. So, if a 38%  retracement of the original move from $10 to $40 turns out to be  the retracement low, then from that price ($31), you find the first  Fibonacci extension level and potential “take profit” target by  adding 126% of the original $30 move upward. The calculation goes  Fibonacci extension level of 126% = $31 + ($30 x 1.26) = $68 – giving  you a target price of $68.  Once again, you never actually have to do any of these calculations.  You just plug a Fibonacci indicator into your charting software and  it displays all the various Fibonacci levels.  Pivot and Fibonacci levels are worth tracking even if you don’t  personally use them as indicators in your own trading strategy.  Because many traders do base buying and selling moves on pivot  and Fibonacci levels, then if nothing else there is likely to be  significant trading activity around those price points, activity that  may help you better determine probable future price moves.  Technical Indicators – Momentum Indicators  Moving averages and most other technical indicators are primarily  focused on determining likely market direction, up or down. But  there is another class of technical indicators, however, whose main  purpose is not so much to determine market direction as to  determine market strength. These indicators include such popular  tools as the Stochastic Oscillator, the Relative Strength Index (RSI),  the Moving Average Convergence-Divergence (MACD) indicator,  and the Average Directional Movement Index (ADX).  By measuring the strength of price movement, momentum  indicators help investors determine whether current price  movement more likely represents relatively insignificant, range- bound trading or an actual, significant trend. Because momentum  indicators measure trend strength, they can also serve as early  warning signals that a trend is coming to an end. For example, if a  security has been trading in a strong, sustained uptrend for several  months, but then one or more momentum indicators signals the  trend steadily losing strength, it may be time to think about taking  The 4-hour chart of USD/SGD below illustrates the value of a  momentum indicator. The MACD indicator appears in a separate  window below the main chart window. The sharp upturn in the  

MACD beginning around June 14th indicates that the corresponding  upsurge in price is a strong, trending move rather than just a  temporary correction. When price begins to retrace downward  somewhat on the 16th, the MACD shows weaker price action,  indicating that the downward movement in price does not have  much strength behind it. Soon after that, a strong uptrend  resumes. In this instance, the MACD would have helped provide  reassurance to a buyer of the market that (A) the turn to the upside  was a significant price move and (B) that the uptrend was likely to  resume after price dipped slightly on the 16th.  Because momentum indicators generally only signal strong or weak  price movement but not trend direction, they are often combined  with other technical indicators as part of an overall trading strategy.  Technical Analysis – Conclusion  Keep in mind the fact that no technical indicator is perfect. None of  them give signals that are 100% accurate all the time.  The smartest traders are always watching for warning signs that  signals from their chosen indicators may be misleading. Technical  analysis, done well, can certainly improve your profitability as a  trader. However, what may do more to improve your fortunes in  

trading is spending more time and effort thinking about how best  to handle things if the market turns against you, rather than just  fantasizing about how you’re going to spend your millions.  

The ADX Indicator  The average directional movement index (ADX) was developed by  the famed technical analyst, Welles Wilder, as an indicator of trend  strength. As a commodity trader, Wilder developed the indicator  for trading commodity futures. However, it has since been widely  applied by technical analysts to virtually every other tradeable  investment, from stocks to forex to ETFs.  What is the ADX?  The ADX is calculated to reflect the expansion, or contraction, of  the price range of a security over a period of time. The traditional  setting for the ADX indicator is 14 time periods, but analysts have  commonly used the ADX with settings as low as 7 or as high as 30.  Lower settings will make the average directional movement index  respond more quickly to price changes but tend to generate more  false signals. Higher settings will minimize false signals but make  the ADX a more lagging indicator.  Wilder calculated the ADX by first calculating both a positive  directional movement index (+DMI) and a negative directional  movement index (-DMI) that compare current high and low prices  to the previous time period’s high and low prices. The ADX itself is  then calculated as the sum of the differences between +DMI and – DMI over a given time period.  All the necessary calculations are a bit complex. Fortunately there’s  no need to do them yourself. All you have to do is apply the  average directional movement index indicator to a chart, with all  the necessary calculations done for you, according to whatever  time period setting you choose. Again, the default number of time  periods is 14.  The ADX on a Chart  The ADX, like momentum indicators such as the MACD or RSI, is  typically shown in a separate window above or below the main  chart window that shows price movement. The ADX is shown as a  line representing values that range from zero to 100.  It’s important to keep in mind that the ADX is not a trend direction  indicator, but an indicator of trend strength. A strong uptrend or a  strong downtrend will both result in high ADX values.  Some versions of the average directional index will also show the  +DMI and –DMI lines. In Wilder’s original conception of the ADX, he  envisioned using the +DMI and –DMI lines to determine trend  

direction and the ADX line to determine trend strength, thus, in  effect, making the ADX a combination trend indicator and  momentum indicator.  However, since then many technical analysts have preferred just  seeing the ADX line itself, for two reasons: (1) the three lines  intermingled can sometimes be visually confusing and (2)  crossovers of the +DMI and –DMI lines have been found to  frequently generate false signals. In short, the average directional  movement index trading system that Wilder designed has generally  been found to be more reliable as a trend strength indicator and  less reliable as a trend direction indicator.  Using the ADX Indicator  The ADX is used first of all to determine whether a market is  trending at all, as opposed to merely trading back and forth within  a range, and secondly to determine the strength of a trend in a  trending market. Finally, the ADX is also often used, as other  momentum indicators are, to indicate a potential market reversal  or trend change.  When the value of the ADX line is below 25 a market is considered  to be ranging rather than trending. Some analysts peg only ADX  readings below 20 as indicative of the absence of a trend, and  readings between 20 and 25 as possibly, but not conclusively,  indicating the presence of a trend.  Any ADX reading above 25 is interpreted as indicating the existence  of a genuine trend. Readings between 25 and 50 indicate a  beginning or moderate strength trend. Readings between 50 and  100 represent increasingly strong trends. The chart shown below  shows the ADX indicating an increasingly strong uptrend as average  directional index readings rise from below 10 to nearly 50.  

The direction of trend strength – increasingly or decreasingly strong  – can easily be determined simply by looking at the slope of the  ADX line. An upsloping ADX line shows a strengthening trend, while  a downsloping ADX line indicates a weakening trend. A steeper  angle of slope indicates a stronger trend, while a shallower angle  indicates a trend with less strength.  NOTE: A change in the direction of the ADX slope can serve as an  early indicator of a developing trend even before ADX readings go  above 25. Referring to the chart shown above, you can see that the  ADX slope turned upward well before the ADX reading rose to 25  and indicated the existence of a trend. But before you go buying a  security every time the ADX slope turns from downward to upward,  keep in mind that the ADX line might just as easily have turned  back to the downside before a genuine uptrend became  established – in other words, you might get caught jumping the gun  Price and the ADX  Analysts and investors rarely use the ADX indicator alone. Since it  does not indicate trend direction, it is commonly used in  conjunction with trend indicators such as moving averages or  support and resistance areas which are used to analyze price  For example, an ideal application of using trend indicators in  combination with the ADX would be an instance where the price of  a security has traded within a range, with clearly defined support  and resistance price levels, but then breaks out of that trading  range by trading through a support or resistance level. If the price  breakout is accompanied by rising ADX readings that indicate the  

presence of a trend, then that would constitute a confirming  indication of the validity of the breakout, and an analyst would  project a trend continuing in the direction of the breakout.  The ADX as a Divergence Indicator  The ADX is also sometimes used, as other momentum indicators  are, as a divergence indicator that can signal an impending trend  change or market reversal.  ADX values will rise to increasingly high levels along with price in a  market that is trending strongly higher. But if ADX levels begin to  decline even as price rises higher, this divergence between price  movement and the ADX may signal that the market is losing  momentum and therefore may be due for a turn to the downside.  In such a situation, analysts will carefully monitor price movement  for any further indications of a possible trend change, the ADX  decline having served as a sort of early warning signal.  Conclusion – the Value of the ADX  The ADX has been found by technical analysts to be a very helpful  indicator and has become one of the most frequently used  technical tools around. It is one of the most reliable trend strength  indicators and has helped many analysts to correctly identify  ranging markets and thus avoid being lured into buying false  breakouts or buying into markets that are basically just flat and  going nowhere.  Wilder developed a number of technical indicators, but always  maintained that the ADX was his best creation. You may well wish  to consider adding the ADX indicator to your technical  analysis arsenal.  

Triangle Patterns  It’s important for every technical trader to recognize patterns as  they form in the market. Patterns are vital in a trader’s quest to  spot trends and predict future outcomes so that they can trade  more successfully and therefore more profitably. Triangle patterns  are important because they help indicate the continuation of  a bullish or bearish market. They can also assist a trader in spotting  market reversals.  There are three types of triangle patterns: ascending, descending,  and symmetrical. The picture below depicts all three. As you read  the breakdown for each pattern, you can use this picture as a point  of reference, a helpful visualization tool you can use to get a mental  picture of what each pattern looks like. And here is the short  version on triangle patterns:  Ascending triangles are a bullish formation that anticipates  an upside breakout.  Descending triangles are a bearish formation that anticipates  a downside breakout.  Symmetrical triangles, where price action grows increasingly  narrow, may be followed by a breakout to either side, up or  

Ascending Triangle Patterns   Ascending triangle patterns are bullish, meaning that they indicate  that a security’s price is likely to climb higher as the pattern  completes itself. This pattern is created with two trendlines. The  first trendline is flat, along the top of the triangle, and acts as a  resistance point which – after price successfully breaks above it –  signals the beginning or resumption of an uptrend. The second  trendline – the bottom line of the triangle that shows price support  – is a line of ascension formed by a series of higher lows. It is this  configuration formed by higher lows that forms the triangle and  gives it a bullish characterization. The basic interpretation is that  the pattern reveals that each time sellers attempt to push price  lower, they are increasingly less successful.  The ascending triangle pattern forms as a security’s price bounces  back and forth between the two lines. Prices move to a high at a  resistance level that leads to a drop in price as securities are sold.  Although price may fail to overcome the resistance several times,  this does not lead to increased power for sellers, as evidenced by  the fact that each sell-off after meeting resistance stops at a higher  level than the previous sell-off attempt.  Eventually price breaks through the upside resistance and  continues in an uptrend. In many cases, price is already in an  overall uptrend and the ascending triangle pattern is viewed as a  consolidation and continuation pattern. In the event that an  ascending triangle pattern forms during an overall downtrend in  the market, it is typically seen as a possible indication of an  impending market reversal to the upside.  Indications and Using the Ascending Triangle Pattern   Because the ascending triangle is a bullish pattern, it’s important to  pay close attention to the supporting ascension line because it  indicates that bears are gradually exiting the market. Bulls (buyers)  are then eventually capable of pushing the security price past the  resistance level indicated by the flat top line of the triangle.  As a trader, it’s wise to be cautious about making trade  entries before prices break above the resistance line because the  pattern may fail to fully form or be violated by a move to the  downside. There is less risk involved by waiting for the confirming  breakout. Buyers can then reasonably place stop-loss orders below  the low of the triangle pattern.  

Using Descending Triangle Patterns   Based on its name, it should come as no surprise that a descending  triangle pattern is the exact opposite of the pattern we’ve just  discussed. This triangle pattern offers traders a bearish signal,  indicating that price will continue lower as the pattern completes  itself. Again, two trendlines form the pattern, but in this case the  supporting bottom line is flat, while the top resistance line slopes  Just as an ascending triangle is often a continuation pattern that  forms in overall uptrend, a descending triangle is a common  continuation pattern that forms in a downtrend. If it appears  during a long-term uptrend, it is usually taken as a signal of a  possible market reversal and trend change. This pattern develops  when a security’s price falls but then bounces off the supporting  line and rises. However, each attempt to push prices higher is less  successful than the one before, and eventually sellers take control  of the market and push price below the supporting bottom line of  the triangle. This action confirms the descending triangle pattern’s  indication that prices are headed lower. Traders can sell short at  the time of the downside breakout, with a stop-loss order placed a  bit above the highest price reached during the formation of the  Using Symmetrical Triangle Patterns   Traders and market analysts commonly view symmetrical triangles  as consolidation patterns which may forecast either the  continuation of the existing trend or a trend reversal. This triangle  pattern is formed as gradually ascending support lines and  descending resistance lines meet up as a security’s trading range  becomes increasingly narrow. Typically, a security’s price will  bounce back and forth between the two trendlines, moving toward  the apex of the triangle, eventually breaking out in one direction or  the other and forming a sustained trend.  Regardless of whether a symmetrical triangle breakout goes in the  direction of continuing the existing trend or in the direction of a  trend reversal, the momentum that is generated when price breaks  out of the triangle is usually sufficient to propel the market a  significant distance. You can imagine the increasingly narrow  trading range as a phenomenon that gradually builds up more and  more pressure until finally price “explodes” out in one direction or  the other. Thus, the breakout from a symmetrical triangle is usually  considered a strong signal of trend direction which traders can  follow with some confidence. Again, the triangle formation offers  

easy identification of reasonable stop-loss order levels: below the  low of the triangle when buying, or above the triangle high if selling  The Bottom Line   In the end, as with any technical indicator, successfully using  triangle patterns really comes down to patience and due diligence.  While these three triangle patterns tend toward certain signals and  indications, it’s important to stay vigilant and remember that the  market is not known for being predictable and can change  directions quickly. This is why judicious traders eyeing what looks  like a triangle pattern shaping up will wait for the breakout  confirmation by price action before adopting a new position in the  market. Also keep in mind that triangle patterns don’t usually form  as clearly as shown in the example illustrations above. The lines  that form a triangle pattern may be a bit more ragged, not quite so  

The TRIN Indicator  The TRIN indicator, also known as the ARMS index because it was  developed by Richard Arms, is functionally an oscillator type  indicator that is primarily used to identify short-term overbought or  oversold conditions in the overall stock market. It does this by  comparing advancing versus declining stocks, along with advancing  versus declining volume. TRIN is short for “TRading INdex”.  The TRIN indicator is referred to as breadth indicator because it  gives an indication of how widely spread, in terms of advances  versus declines, stock market price movement is as reflected in a  major stock market index such as the S&P 500 Index or the  NASDAQ 100 Index.  Because the TRIN indicator factors in both price advances or  declines and volume figures, it is seen as indicating both the  velocity (advances/declines) and mass (volume figures) of the stock  market’s overall price movement.  Calculating the TRIN Indicator  Looking at the calculation for the TRIN indicator makes it very easy  for a trader to understand what the TRIN reflects. The calculation  for the TRIN is as follows:  (advances/declines) / (advancing volume/declining volume)  The TRIN first divides the number of advancing stocks for the day  by the number of declining stocks for the day. It then divides the  volume of advancing stocks by the volume of declining stocks.  Finally, it divides the result of the first calculation by the result of  the second calculation.  So, for example, if on a given day the number of advancing stocks  was 2,275 and the number of declining stocks was 764, then the  advance decline ratio would be 2.98. If the total volume of  advancing stocks was 1,176 and the total volume of declining  stocks was 164, then the advance decline volume ratio would be  Interpreting TRIN Values  Successfully using TRIN levels to indicate temporary overbought or  oversold levels in a market can be a bit tricky. First of all, TRIN  values appear to be inverse, in that higher values indicate  increased selling while lower values indicate increased buying.  

Generally speaking, TRIN values below 0.50 are considered to  indicate overbought conditions in which analysts may anticipate an  impending corrective retracement downward. TRIN values above  that may give rise to an upside rally. A TRIN value of 1.00 indicates  a balanced stock market that is neither overbought nor oversold.  One can quickly see that there’s a wide middle range of possible  TRIN values between overbought values below 0.50 and oversold  values above 3.00. In order to make the TRIN indicator more useful,  analysts look not just at the basic TRIN values but also at how the  TRIN value changes throughout a trading day or over a longer  period of time such as during a trading week. By doing so, analysts  can more precisely pinpoint what constitute extreme levels, to one  side or the other, in the TRIN under whatever the current market  conditions are.  For example, the market might go through a period where TRIN  values go no lower than 0.75 and no higher than 2.25. In such  market conditions, analysts may determine that those two extreme  values accurately reflect overbought and oversold conditions for  the market during that specific time period, even though they fall  short of what are typically the TRIN value levels that are considered  to indicate overbought/oversold conditions.  Some traders and analysts who watch the TRIN indicator focus on  the TRIN’s equilibrium value of 1.00 and consider any readings  significantly below 1.00 as potential indications of overbought  conditions and any readings significantly above 1.00 as potential  indications of oversold conditions.  Volatility Shortcoming of TRIN  One of the shortcomings of the TRIN indicator is that its value can  fluctuate significantly either intraday or from one trading day to the  next even under overall market conditions that would not usually  be described as volatile. In order to smooth out some of the  inherent volatility in the TRIN indicator, some traders  and analysts prefer to look at a 10-day moving average of the TRIN  Using the TRIN  Analysts commonly use the TRIN indicator to identify market  conditions under which the short-term market trend may soon  shift from bullish to bearish (when the market is temporarily  overbought) or from bearish to bullish (when the market is  

temporarily oversold). Traders may use the TRIN to identify  potentially profitable buying or selling price levels.  The chart below shows that traders who bought into the market  when the TRIN showed values above 3.00, indicating oversold  conditions at the market levels indicated by the green up arrows,  would have fared very well. However, traders who sold the market  based on TRIN values below 0.50 indicating overbought conditions  would not have been so profitable over the same time period.  The TRIN is typically a leading indicator – one that projects a market  turn before it happens. Looking at the above chart, one can easily  see that the TRIN often anticipated an actual turn in stock market  direction by a day or two. While this may afford a trader an  opportunity to “sell the top” or “buy the bottom”, most traders will  look for confirming price action in stock market index values before  trading based on an anticipated market reversal.  

When TRIN values are relatively steady and around the 1.00  equilibrium level, many traders will stand aside and wait for further  market action before making or adjusting any investments. Market  activity that occurs without moving the TRIN indicator very much  one way or the other is more likely to prove insignificant for the  The TRIN indicator can be very useful to traders of stock indexes  who aim to catch and profit from overall stock market reversals;  however, because of its capacity for extreme volatility it is one of  the technical indicators that are known for being prone to  generating false signals.  

The MACD Indicator  The Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) oscillator is  one of the most popular and widely used technical indicators that  traders and analysts use to gauge momentum in markets.  Understanding the MACD  The popularity of the MACD indicator can be directly linked to its  ability to accurately indicate rapid short-term momentum  Gerald Appel developed the Moving Average  Convergence Divergence in the latter part of the 1970s. While the  name seems long and complicated, the MACD is one of the least  complicated indicators to actually calculate and put into practical  The MACD utilizes two different trend tracking indicators – moving  averages – and creates a momentum oscillator from them by  subtracting the moving average of the longer time period from the  moving average of the shorter time period. In a sense, this makes  the MACD a double-edged technical indicator in that it offers  traders and analysts the ability to identify and follow trends in the  market, as well as to gauge the momentum of price movements  The calculated moving averages used in the MACD will inevitably  converge, cross over one another, and then proceed to diverge, or  move away from each other, making the MACD jump over or under  the zero line as this happens. Traders are then able to watch for  these signaling crossovers and divergences in order to help them  spot changing market trends, either bullish or bearish.  

How is the MACD calculated? The picture above illustrates how shorter term and longer term  moving averages come closer together (converge), move further  apart (diverge), and cross over one another. The MACD reflects the  changing relationship of short-term exponential moving averages  to long-term exponential moving averages.  The equation used to calculate the MACD is as follows:  (12 day EMA – 26 day EMA) = MACD  Traders and analysts typically use closing prices for 12-day and 26- day time periods to generate the EMAs used to calculate the  Moving Average Convergence Divergence. Following this, a 9-day  moving average of the MACD itself is then plotted alongside the  indicator to serve as a signaling line to help illuminate when a  market may be turning.  

The picture above clearly indicates the MACD line, the signal line,  and the MACD histogram which is a representation of the  difference between the 9-day moving average of the MACD and the  current MACD reading. When the oscillator line crosses above the  9-day average (signal line), the histogram reads as positive (above  the zero line that is indicated on the right hand side of the MACD  window). Conversely, the histogram is negative when the MACD  line dips below the signal line.  As mentioned earlier, 12-period and 26-period values are the  default settings used to calculate the MACD. Changes in the time  periods used for the MACD calculation can be made to  accommodate a trader’s specific trade goals or their particular style  How to interpret the MACD  The MACD is built on movement – the movement of moving  averages either towards one another (convergence) or away from  one another (divergence). The MACD fluctuates, or oscillates, over  and under the zero line, otherwise known as the centerline. This  fluctuation is a crossover which signals to traders that the shorter  moving average price has crossed over the path of the longer  moving average price.  The MACD is seen as positive when the 12-day moving average  crosses above the 26-day average. As the shorter term moving  average diverges and moves further and further from the longer  term moving average, the positive values of the MACD increases.  

This reflects the fact that upside momentum is increasing. With this  in mind, it’s not a stretch to understand that when the opposite  happens – the 12-day average dips below the 26-day average – the  oscillator turns negative and as the shorter term moving average  moves further downward and away from the longer term moving  average, an increase in downside momentum is indicated.  Crossing the Signal Line  Crossovers of the signal line by the MACD line are one of the  MACD’s staple signals. The signal line, as we’ve covered already, is  the 9-day moving average of the MACD itself. The signal line is an  estimated valuation for the movement of the oscillator that makes  bullish and bearish MACD turns easier to see.  When a trader sees that the MACD turns north, crossing over the  signal line and staying above it, a bullish crossover has occurred.  This is a signal that a security’s price is on the rise.  The exact opposite is true when the MACD line crosses down over  the signal line. This is a bearish crossover and if the oscillator  continues to drop below the signal line, it’s a good indication that  the bears are taking over. Depending on the steepness of the drop  and the number of days the drop continues, many traders holding  long (buy) positions may prefer to sell before they lose a significant  amount of value. This can also be an opportunity for savvy traders  to pick up undervalued securities during a temporary downside  retracement that occurs in an overall uptrend.  Moving Average Divergence  The MACD is frequently watched by analysts for signs of divergence  from the movement of price. When price continues rising to a new  high level but the MACD does not follow suit – instead turning  south – this divergence from price action is commonly interpreted  as a sign of impending trend change. In fact, many traders use the  MACD solely as a possible trend change indicator, always watching  for such divergence from price action.  The Bottom Line  Any time the signal line is crossed over at either extremely high or  extremely low points, be cautious before you act. Similarly, if a  crossover seems shallow, or seems to move either or up down but  then plateau, be vigilant but don’t make a move in haste. The  volatility in an underlying security can be deceptive and cause the  MACD to move in unusual ways.  

As with anything, putting the MACD into practice and working with  it on a regular basis will allow you to get a feel for its common  patterns and movements and help you sharpen your eye when it  comes to extreme or uncommon fluctuations. The longer you work  with this oscillator, the easier it will be to interpret its signals  accurately and trade successfully.  

A Pin Bar Scalping Strategy for Day Traders  This is a simple scalping strategy for day traders, one that uses the  pin bar indicator, one of the most reliable candlestick formations,  to identify market reversals.  The pin bar, also known as a hammer, is a single candlestick  indicator that signals a strong rejection of further price movement  in one direction and a reversal in the opposite direction. Pin bar  candlesticks are characterized by having long wicks, or tails, that  indicate rejection of price in the direction of the tail, and short  candlestick bodies that indicate an impending market reversal.  A bearish pin bar indicates a reversal to the downside, and a bullish  pin bar indicates a reversal to the upside. The critical feature of a  pin bar candlestick is the elongated tail which shows that during  the formation of the candlestick price moved significantly in one  direction but then dramatically back in the opposite direction so  that the candlestick closes back near its open. The pin bar  candlestick body is very short and the candlestick tail at least two to  three times longer than the candlestick body. The wick on the  opposite side of the candlestick body from the long tail should  either be very short or non-existent, no wick at all.  Trading Pin Bars on the Five-Minute Chart  The five-minute chart time frame is a favorite of scalpers looking to  quickly make small profits. However, sometimes you can catch a  reversal on the five-minute time frame that turns out to be the  

beginning of a major trend reversal that enables you to bank major  The setup for trading with pin bars on the five-minute chart uses  two moving averages, a 10-period exponential moving average and  a 21-period exponential moving average. The trading strategy is as  Price should be noticeably above or below both moving  averages. The position of price away from the moving  averages when the pin bar formation occurs lends some  confirmation to a possible market reversal by virtue of the  fact that it indicates that price may have become a bit  The possibility of the market becoming temporarily  overbought or oversold – and therefore due for a reversal  and correction – is strengthened if there have been several  candlesticks in a row moving price in one direction  immediately preceding the formation of the pin bar. This is  illustrated in the chart below where, just to the left of the  middle of the chart, five consecutive down candlesticks  precede a pin bar formation that accurately signals a market  reversal to the upside.  When a pin bar candlestick is formed, traders should enter in  the direction of the indicated reversal immediately following  the close of the pin bar. Do not enter before then because a  candlestick may appear to be forming a pin bar, only to have  a sudden price move just before the close of the candlestick  negate the pin bar formation.  A stop-loss order should be placed just beyond the extreme  tail of the pin bar candlestick (in the example shown in the  photo above, a stop-loss order would be placed just below  the low of the bullish reversal pin bar). This is one of the best  features of this trading strategy – the fact that it is very low  risk, allowing traders to reasonably run a very tight, close  stop. When this strategy works, price does not usually move  

beyond the extreme low or high represented by the tail end  of the pin bar.  A profit target can be price moving back to touch or crossover  one of the moving averages. More aggressive traders can aim  for larger profits by continuing to stay in the trade, looking for  the reversal trend to continue, but moving their stop-loss  order to breakeven, their trade entry point, in order to guard  against taking a loss.  The pin bar reversal indication is stronger, more likely to be  accurate, when it occurs at a previously identified support or  resistance price level, since price is more likely to reverse at such  levels. Support or resistance levels may be any price levels where  the market has previously reversed direction from, such as pivot  points, weekly highs or lows, or Fibonacci retracement levels.  This trading strategy is very popular with forex traders, but can also  be applied to stock or commodity trading.  

The Three Simplest Trend Following  Here are three of the simplest trend-following trading strategies  around. But don’t mistake “simple” for “not-very-good”. While these  are indeed simple trading strategies, they are also among the most  reliable trading strategies for consistent profits with low risk. These  strategies are designed primarily for long-term traders who trade  using analysis of the daily time frame charts; however, they can  also be applied to shorter time frame charts such as the four hour  and one hour charts.  Each of these strategies is designed to enable a trader to ride a  long-term trend for maximum profitability. They will not work well  in range-bound or extremely volatile markets, but in a trending  market, either up or down, should allow you to capture most, or at  least a substantial part of, any long-term trend move.  1 – The Golden Cross/Death Cross Strategy  Let’s start with possibly the simplest strategy, one that utilizes just  two simple moving averages, the 50-period moving average and  the 200-period moving average. This strategy is a favorite of many  stock market traders, applied to both individual stock prices and to  market indexes, and it’s as simple as this:  Be a buyer (long) as long as the 50 MA is above the 200 MA  Be a seller (short) as long as the 50 MA is below the 200 MA  As noted earlier in this book, the crossover of the 50-period moving  average from below to above the 200-period moving average is  referred to as the “golden cross”, basically meaning that a security  is “gold” once this occurs. Such a crossover is considered a very  bullish long-term trend signal. The 50-period moving average  crossing from above to below the 200-period moving average is  known as the “death cross” because it is considered a strong signal  of a bear market downtrend.  Here’s an example of the golden cross trading signal in action,  applied to First Energy stock:  

2 – The 5,8,13 Fibonacci Strategy  The 5,8,13 Fibonacci strategy (so called because it utilizes the  Fibonacci number sequence of 5, 8, and 13) can work well for a  trader on a couple of levels. First of all, it will often clue a trader in  near the start of a long-term trend. Secondly, it gives clear signals  to both a strong trend and to a range-bound or consolidating  This trading strategy is implemented as follows: Plot a 5-period, 8- period, and 13-period exponential moving average on your chart.  The buy/sell signal for this strategy occurs when the 5-period  moving average crosses above or below the 13-period moving  average. When a strong trend is in place, traders will see two  indications of this. First, the space between the three moving  averages will widen or fan out. Secondly, in an uptrend candlestick  closes will usually remain above the highest – the 5-period –  moving average. (Conversely, in a downtrend candlestick closes will  tend to remain below the 5-period moving average line.)  When the three moving averages converge and flatten out, all of  them packed tightly together and appearing roughly horizontal  rather than as upsloping or downsloping lines, this indicates a  market that is either range-bound or in a consolidation period.  You can see in the chart below where, on the left hand side of the  chart, an uptrend forms coincident with the 5-period moving  average crossing above the 13-period moving average. As the  bullish trend continues and strengthens, the space between the  moving averages widens out and the 5-period moving average (the  

blue line) provides support for price during the trend. In the middle  of the chart, the moving averages come together and flatten out,  indicating a consolidation period that is then followed by a  resumption of the uptrend.  3 – The Simple ADX Trading Strategy  This trading strategy is based solely on price action and a single  momentum indicator – the Average Directional Movement Index,  known simply as the ADX, discussed in an earlier section.  (Just a passing note purely for the sake of entertainment: For all his  brilliance as a technical analyst, Wilder still managed to lose more  than one fortune in the course of his trading. He was less adept at  applying his technical indicators than he was at creating them, and  suffered from the bad habit of many traders – overtrading.)  Are you ready for simple? – This is simple. Apply the ADX indicator,  which appears in a separate window below the main chart window,  to your chart.  

When the ADX reading is above 25, which indicates the  existence of a trend, and price is generally moving higher, be  a buyer or hold a long position.  When the ADX reading is above 25, and price is overall  declining, be a seller or hold a short position.  When the ADX reading falls below 25, this indicates a  trendless, ranging, or consolidating market. Exit existing  positions and remain out of the market until the ADX reading  again rises to a reading of 25 or higher.  More aggressive traders can use an ADX reading above 20,  rather than above 25, as indicative of a trend.  That’s it. (I told you it was simple.)  You can, of course, aim to refine any of these trading strategies by  using supplemental confirming indicators. But the fact is that many  of the most successful trading strategies are relatively simple, and  that adding indicator after indicator often results more in confusion  than clarity. There’s no reason to make generating trading profits  any more complicated than necessary, so you may well wish to at  least try out one or more of these very easy technical trading  strategies. They may be all you need to help you become a highly  successful trader.  

The Psychology of Trading: Winning Mindset  Being a trader is not just about formulating better strategies and  performing more extensive analysis. It’s also about developing a  winning mindset. According to many studies of traders, what  separates a winning trader from a losing one -  Is NOT that winning traders have better trading strategies  Is NOT that winning traders are smarter  Is NOT that winning traders do better market analysis  What separates a winning trader from a losing trader is their  psychological mindset.  Most traders, when they first begin trading mistakenly believe that  all they need to do is find a great trading strategy. After that, they’ll  be able to just come to the market each day, plug in their great  trading strategy, and the market will immediately start pumping  money into their account.  Unfortunately, as any of us who have ever traded have learned, it’s  not that easy. There are plenty of traders who use intelligent, well- designed trading strategies and systems who still regularly lose  money rather than make money.  The few traders who do consistently win the game of trading  are those who have developed the appropriate psychological  mindset that enables them to be consistent winners. There are  certain beliefs, attitudes, and psychological characteristics that are  essential to conquering the world of trading.  Attitudes about the Markets and about Yourself  Attitudes and beliefs about the market include things such as  believing that the market is rigged against you. Such negative – and  erroneous – beliefs can have a significant impact on your ability to  trade successfully. If you’re looking at the market as being out to  get you, then you’re not looking at it properly, in accord with reality,  and therefore you can’t hope to be able to objectively evaluate  market opportunities. The market is completely neutral – it doesn’t  care whether you make money or lose money.  Our beliefs about ourselves are critical elements of trading  psychology. One personal characteristic that most all winning  traders share is that of self-confidence. Winning traders  possess a firm, basic belief in their ability to BE winning  

traders – a belief that is not seriously shaken by a few, or even  several, losing trades.  In contrast, many losing traders have serious, nagging self-doubt.  Unfortunately, if you see yourself as a losing trader, cursed with  bad luck or whatever, that belief tends to become a self-fulfilling  prophecy. Traders who doubt their ability often hesitate to push  the button and initiate trades, and thereby often miss out on good  trading opportunities. They also tend to cut profits short, overly  fearful that the market will turn against them at any moment.  Winning traders have a healthy respect for the fact that even their  best market analysis may sometimes not match up with future  price movements. Nonetheless, they possess an overall confidence  in their ability as traders – a confidence which enables them to  easily initiate trades whenever a genuine opportunity arises.  Key Characteristics of a Winning Trader  Psychologically, the very best of traders share the same key  characteristics, including the following:  They are comfortable with taking risks; People with very low  risk tolerance, those who cannot accept losing trades, are not  cut out to be winning traders, since losing trades are simply  part of the game of trading. Winning traders are able to  emotionally accept the uncertainty that is inherent in trading.  Trading is not like investing your money in a savings account  with a guaranteed return.  They are capable of quickly adjusting to changing market  conditions (They don’t fall in love with, and “marry”, their  analysis of a market – If price action indicates that they need  to change their viewpoint on probable future price  movements, they do so without hesitating).  They are disciplined in their trading and can view the market  objectively, regardless of how current market action is  affecting their account balance.  They don’t give in to being excessively excited about winning  trades or excessively despairing about losing trades.  They make the necessary effort and take the necessary steps  to be self-disciplined traders who operate with strict money  and risk management rules.  

One of the most important psychological characteristics of winning  traders is the ability to accept (1) risk and (2) the fact that you may  well be wrong more often than you are right in initiating trades.  Winning traders understand that trade management is actually a  more important skill than market analysis. What determines  profits and losses is often not so much a matter of how or when  you enter a trade, but more a matter of how you manage a trade  once you’re in it.  Understanding How Trading Works  Winning traders know the difference between a “bad trade” and a  trade that loses money. This is a critical point to understand. Just  because you end up losing money on a trade, that doesn’t mean it  was a bad trade – it just means that it didn’t work out profitably.  What makes a trade a good trade is not whether it wins or loses –  a trade is a good one as long as it offers greater potential reward  than risk, and the odds or probabilities of it being successful are  in your favor, regardless of how it turns out. If you took the trade  for good reasons and managed the trade well once you were in it,  then it’s a good trade, even if you ended up getting stopped out for  a loss. (Conversely, even if a trade happens to make money, if it  wasn’t initiated for good reasons and with a favorable risk/reward  ratio, then it’s a bad trade even though it may have happened to  turn out profitably).  Winning traders operate on the premise that if they continue to  make “good trades” as defined above, that they will ultimately be  profitable. Losing traders incorrectly identify any trade that loses  money as a “bad trade” and any trade that makes money as a  “good trade,” regardless of whether there was a reasonable basis  for making the trade – and that leads to bad, losing trading in the  long run. Evaluating trades solely on the basis of whether they  happen to win or lose is doing nothing more than looking at  random rewards similar to playing a slot machine.  The Upside-Down Mental Attitude of a Winning Trader  One reason that losing is so common among traders is that many  attitudes and principles that serve us well in life do not work well at  all in the profession of trading. Unaware of this fact, many traders  lack a basic understanding of what trading is all about.  For example, in our ordinary, daily lives, we are taught to avoid  risky situations. But trading is all about taking risks.  

Trading is an inherently risk-filled endeavor.  Winning traders who genuinely accept the risk of trading have the  ability to enter a trading opportunity without hesitation and to just  as easily close a trade when it isn’t working. They are not burdened  with the emotional pain that causes them to lose their focus or self- confidence as a result of a trade not working.  Traders who have not learned this attitude toward trading are  driven by emotional reactions to winning or losing trades and have  not truly accepted the fact that trading is a risk-filled business.  Because they are not acting in harmony with reality, they do not  make the best possible trading decisions.  Engaging in trading – and being successful at it – puts a huge  demand on us, namely the demand that we maintain confidence  while dealing with the continual uncertainty of trading the markets.  In the profession of trading, facing the truth about what we’re  engaged in is one of the key elements to success.  Habits of Winning a Trader  Winning traders regularly review and evaluate  their trading performance. They understand that  trading is a skill that is only mastered through  rigorous practice over time. Winning traders keep  a record of their trades and examine them after- the-fact to learn from both their wins and their  Winning traders are flexible. They aren’t ego- invested in their trades. They are able to always  view the market objectively and easily cast aside  trade ideas that aren’t working.  Winning traders do not hesitate to risk money  when they see a genuine profit opportunity based  on their market analysis and trading strategy.  However, they do not risk money recklessly.  Always aware of the possibility of being wrong,  they practice strict risk management by putting  small limits on their losses.  Understanding that the Market can’t be Predicted  Winning traders are aware of, and accept, the fact that the market is  ultimately unpredictable, that there is no sure-fire market analysis  technique or strategy that will infallibly predict price movements.  Because they are keenly aware of this fact, they carefully watch for  

signs that their analysis is mistaken, and if they see such signs, they  quickly adjust their trading position.  In contrast, losing traders, once they have put a trade on, tend to  only look for market action that confirms that they are right, and  minimize or rationalize away any market action that seems to  contradict their analysis. Thus, they often end up staying in losing  trades too long and taking unnecessarily large losses.  Freedom and Discipline of Being a Trader  Trading is basically without boundaries, the markets a completely  free environment. You are free to buy or sell, enter or exit, at any  point in time. There are basically no rules that require you to either  open or close a trade at any given price or time. Despite the fact  that one of the primary attractions of trading is the complete  freedom to make our own decisions – to basically do whatever we  want, whenever we want – the only way to consistently succeed in  trading is to self-impose a set of rules to govern our trading and to  practice strict discipline in following those rules.  What’s the problem? The problem is that we all instinctively love  having the freedom to do whatever we want and hate having any  rules and restrictions placed on us, even those of our own creation.  Self-discipline is critical to winning trading. Unfortunately, self- discipline is typically the hardest discipline to come by. Most of us  do a better job of abiding by rules imposed on us from outside  ourselves, i.e., a “No Parking” sign, than we do of abiding by the  rules we create for ourselves. Our attitude tends to be one more of,  “Well, I made the rule, so I’m free to break it”. While that’s  technically true, it’s not an attitude that will serve you well in  The Solution is Within Yourself  Losing traders mistakenly believe that mastering the market itself is  the key to winning. They fail to face the reality that the market itself  can’t really be mastered. You can’t control the market.  What you can control is yourself, what you do in relation to the  market’s actions. Winning traders realize this fact and put  greater effort into mastering themselves and their trading  actions than they put into trying to master market analysis. It’s  not that market analysis isn’t useful. It’s just that the amount of  available information available to consider, as well as the number  of different technical or fundamental indicators, is virtually endless.  

Plus, what’s significant at one point in time may be utterly  insignificant at another point in time.  It’s all just too much information to sort out and ultimately  impossible to deal with perfectly. A trader’s time is better spent on  mastering themselves and their trading skills.  Summary of Being a Winning Trader  Trading is a difficult game to master. Very few people become  highly successful at it. However, it is possible for virtually anyone to  become a master trader as long as they are willing to make the  necessary effort.  Attaining the proper psychological mindset for winning trading  requires rigorous self-examination and self-discipline. You have to  learn to cultivate good trading habits because they aren’t things  that come naturally to most people. Making the necessary changes  in yourself that will enable you to become a consistently profitable  trader will more than likely affect how well you deal with life overall,  not just how well you deal with trading.  Bottom line: Make the commitment to becoming a winning  trader and that will enable you to become a winning trader.  You can do it – but it’s up to you, not the market, to put money  in your pocket.  

Six Essential Skills of Master Traders  Just about anyone can become a trader, but to become a master  trader takes more than investment capital and a three-piece suit.  Keep in mind: there is a sea of individuals looking to join the ranks  of master traders and bring home the kind of money that goes with  that title. Very few of them make the grade or even come close to  it. Consistently winning traders are about as rare as multi-million  dollar winning lottery tickets.  One of the prerequisites of becoming a master trader is an  adequate education in fundamental economics, financial markets,  and technical analysis. But there are plenty of well-educated, well- informed, very intelligent individuals who won’t qualify as master  traders. The critical difference between winning traders and losing  traders is more dependent on acquiring the essential skills that  master traders share. Master these skills and then you’ll have a  genuine shot at being a trading master.  Skills #1 and #2 – Research and Analysis  The ability to do good quality research and solid market analysis is  fundamental to trading success. Master traders develop their skills  in being able to thoroughly research information relevant to the  securities they trade – and then, more importantly, being able to  accurately determine the likely impact of that information on a  particular market.  Master traders learn, and perfect, utilizing market information –  both fundamental economic information and market information  in the form of trading and price action that occurs – to adapt and  approach the market in the most effective ways possible. (By  “effective,” we mean with favorable risk/reward ratios, high  probabilities of success, and low levels of risk.)  Analytical skills are vital because they enable a trader to better  understand, identify, and use market trends (or the lack thereof) –  both as applied to price action on individual charts of various time  frames, and in the market as a whole.  As you analyze a market and spot patterns and trends, it’s also  necessary to determine what technical trading approaches are  called for. We suggest that focusing less on the money to be made,  and more on taking the right action at the right time, is a major  attitude necessary for developing and perfecting your analytical  skills. Focusing on the market, not on the money in your  trading account, enables you to make the best, objective  

trading decisions in each situation – and doing THAT enables  you to ultimately make the wisest and most profitable trades.  Nearly all of the “Market Wizards” interviewed by Jack Schwager in  his famous book on winning trading stated that they focus on the  market and on their trades, not on their account balance. They’re  solely concerned with trying to get the market right, regardless of  whether doing so makes them a dollar or a million dollars.  Skill #3 – Adapting Your Market Analysis to Changing Market  Over time, master traders develop strategies and trading  techniques that they use over and over again. Over time, every  trader puts together his own personal toolkit of methods,  maneuvers, strategies, and trading tactics. That’s a good thing. It’s  important that you have your own individual trading style and  trading edge, such as specific combinations of technical indicators  that signal high probability trades.  Having your own tried and true trading style is a good thing. A  better thing, a master trader sort of thing, is having your most  ingrained habit be the habit of continually monitoring the market  for signs and indications that the market is changing or forming a  new pattern, thereby signaling to you that you need to adapt to  those changing conditions by adjusting your trading approach and  strategy accordingly.  Skill #4 – Staying in the Game  Regardless of the industry, company, or particular profession,  everyone faces peaks and valleys in their career. If you are a full- time trader, you will inevitably be met with considerable gains and,  at other times, significant losses. Sticking with it – staying in the  trading game – is an irreplaceable and vital skill that every master  trader must possess.  Of course it’s easy to become excited and overly eager to make  hasty trades when favorable price movements benefit your bank  account. Human nature bids us to continue acting in certain ways  when the outcomes are good. But there will also be days when the  market all but completely turns against you. Rather than being  filled with excitement about trading, you just want to turn off your  computer monitor or close out your trading platform and slink  away and lick your financial wounds.  A master trader understands that neither extreme will last forever,  and, that sticking it out – through the good and the bad – is a skill  that enables you to learn, grow and profit.  

A significant part of being able to stay in the game is practicing  good risk management and money management. Always use stop- loss orders and never risk too much on any one trade.   Don’t take trades unless they have positive risk/reward ratios, in  other words, if what you’ll make if you’re right is significantly more  than what you’ll lose if you’re wrong. Why risk a possible $50 loss if  the most you’ll likely make even if your market analysis is perfectly  correct is only $10? Those numbers are not in your favor. Instead,  only take trades when being right stands to make you a lot more  than being wrong can cost you. Even when there seems to be a  good trade opportunity, such as a major market reversal, if you  can’t get a favorable, low-risk entry point, just let that opportunity  go by, and instead wait for one to materialize where you can get a  good, low-risk entry.  Skills #5 and #6 – Discipline and Patience  Discipline and patience are two very closely related skills that every  master trader needs – in abundance. As mentioned above, staying  in the game is important because it allows you to experience both  the highs and the lows, learning from them and making the  necessary adjustments to your trading. A master trader must be  both patient and disciplined in order to stick with it, especially on  days when profit is non-existent.  A patient and disciplined trader knows, for example, that quite  often the very worst trading sessions or days are followed by  significantly better ones. Keep in mind that a fundamental part of  market behavior is its up-and-down, give-and-take fluctuations.  Sessions that run flat and see very little volume may continue for  several days, but the disciplined trader understands that patience  will be rewarded, so he waits until the market begins to make a  truly significant move before entering and risking his hard-earned  One of the most common mistakes of losing traders is trading  when the market isn’t presenting any genuine profit opportunities.  Many traders just put on a trade out of sheer boredom. Such  actions nearly always cost you money.  A master trader simply takes it in stride if an entire trading session  passes by in which no good, low-risk profit opportunities arise.  Master traders know that the market will be open again tomorrow  and that there will always be new trading opportunities.  Don’t let markets that are going basically nowhere trick you into  abandoning good trading discipline and strategy. Be patient, wait,  

and when a favorable opportunity does present itself, don’t  hesitate – pull the trigger and enter the market, with confidence  your trading ability.  Bonus Skill #7 – Record Keeping  Master traders learn from their trading mistakes. Losing traders  rarely do. One of the critical habits that create winning traders is  that of keeping a trading journal. A trading journal provides you  with a record of each trade as it happened: your entry point and  your initial reason for buying or selling; where you put your stop- loss order and your take-profit order; what happened in the market  after you initiated your trade, and how you reacted to the market  action; finally, the amount of your win/loss.  Keeping a trading journal and regularly reading back through it  provides one of the quickest and easiest ways to identify both what  you’re doing right and what you’re doing wrong.  The primary message we hope you take away from this section is  that every master trader needs to develop the essential skills for  successful (i.e., profitable) trading. Make the necessary effort to  become a genuinely skilled trader, and the market will reward you  for your diligent efforts.  Becoming a master trader isn’t easy, but it is possible and well  worth making the necessary effort. If you start working in that  direction today, rather than putting it off until tomorrow, then  you’re one day closer to making your financial dreams a reality.  

Inspiration for Trading: Quotes from the  We’d like to send you on your way to being a hugely successful  trader with some inspirational quotes from those who managed to  master the markets and amass a fortune - May you soon do the  "In investing, what is comfortable is rarely profitable." - Robert Arnott  "Every once in a while, the market does something so stupid it  takes your breath away." - Jim Cramer  “Bull markets are born on pessimism, grow on skepticism, mature  on optimism, and die on euphoria. The time of maximum  pessimism is the best time to buy, and the time of maximum  optimism is the best time to sell…If you want to have a better  performance than the crowd, then you must do things differently  from the crowd.” – Sir John Templeton  “In this business, if you're good, you're right six times out of ten.  You're never going to be right nine times out of ten.” – Peter Lynch  “I have a problem with too much money. I can't reinvest it fast  enough, and because I reinvest it, more money comes in. Yes, the  rich do get richer.” – Robert Kiyosaki  “One of the funny things about the market is that every time one  person buys, another sells, and both think they are astute.” –  William Feather  “No profession requires more hard work, intelligence, patience, and  mental discipline than successful speculation." - Robert Rhea  “The goal of a successful trader is to make the best trades. Money  is secondary." - Alexander Elder  “The game taught me the game. And it didn’t spare me the rod  while teaching." - Jesse Livermore  “Michael Marcus taught me one other thing that is absolutely  critical: You have to be willing to make mistakes regularly; there is  nothing wrong with it. Michael taught me about making your best  judgment, being wrong, making your next best judgment, being  wrong, then making your third best judgment and doubling your  money." - Bruce Kovner  

“A loss never troubles me after I take it. I forget it overnight. But being  wrong and not taking the loss – that is what does the damage to the  pocket book and to the soul." - Jesse Livermore  “Beginners focus on analysis, but professionals operate in a three  dimensional space. They are aware of trading psychology, their  own feelings and the mass psychology of the markets." - Alexander  “I have two basic rules about winning in trading as well as in life: 1. If  you don’t bet, you can’t win. 2. If you lose all your chips, you can’t bet.”  “Good opportunities come infrequently. When it rains gold put out  a bucket, not a thimble.” – Warren Buffet  “All you need is one pattern to make a living.” – Linda Raschke  Okay, that’s it – we’re done. Go make your fortune!  

The Complete Guide to Trading  The Corporate Finance Institute  www.

